The Senate on Wednesday began to sing different tunes over the controversial Hate Speech by Death Bill which went through the first reading in the upper chamber of the National Assembly.
Invariably, in about 24 hours after the bill seeking for the establishment of National Commission for Prohibition of Hate Speeches passed the first reading, the Senate on Wednesday turned against the sponsor of the bill, declaring that Senator Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi (APC Kano North), the bill sponsor, is on his own.
The Senate retraced its steps, insisting that the bill will undergo conventional legislative proceedings in determining its acceptability or otherwise at the second or third reading stages.
Senate Spokesman, Senator Godiya Akwashiki, representing APC Nasarawa North, acknowledging public outcry and rising disquiets cross the country after the bill passed first reading on Tuesday, subtly dissociated the senate from the controversial bill; pointing out that it was too early to attach the bill to the Senate since it has not been debated for second reading.
Akwashiki in an interactive session with National Assembly Correspondents, acknowledged that the federal legislature has processes of law making.
“The process starts with the First reading, when the Leader of the Senate will read it for the first time.
“The Second reading is taken after the bill has been subjected to debate on the floor of the Senate.
“Once a bill scale second reading, it has to go to the committee and would return to the house again,” he highlighted.
The senator appealed to Nigerians that the bill is not yet a finished work by the senate, noting that it has chances of being rejected.
“I want to urge Nigerians to exercise patience with the Senate because it is not wise for me to discuss a bill that has not been mentioned for second reading on the floor of the Senate.
“When the bill comes for second reading, then, you will know where it is heading or what the Senate intends to do. I want to assure you that even if the bill scale second reading on the floor of the Senate and the public moves against it, it will not survive because we are working for the progress and betterment of Nigerians,” he declared.

			
			PV: 
			0