Oyo State Development Advocacy group (OSDAG), a front line pro Makinde support group, has called on the opposition, All Progressives congress (APC), and it’s candidate, Mr Adebayo Adelabu, not to waste their time chasing what is not lost through court.

 OSDAG said that the verdict at both the Tribunal and court of appeal is simple, short and straight forward without any ambiguity, even though, they tried to misinform the public on the true outcome of the court verdict.

According to the group’s spokesman, Mr Micheal Ogunsina, he said, his group is pleased to congratulate Engr Seyi Makinde for his resounding victory at both the tribunal and the appeal court, reaffirming that he won the election by landslide at the polls.

The group counsels APC, that the good people of Oyo State, freely gave their nearly 600, 000 votes to Governor Seyi Makinde on March 9th, 2019, warning them that, any attempt to want to subvert that, will only attract more hate to them from Oyo Citizens and Nigerians at large.

We are not God, but, there is currently no vacancy at Agodi Government house, until Makinde finishes his lawful and permitted terms. The people are with him, Nigerians are with him in solidarity and solidly, there must be respect to the will of the people, no matter how power hungry the opposition may be.

Adelabu

APC in their deceptive ways, went to town, to give false interpretations and false hope to their members, but the reality has finally dawn on them that they lost and that, no matter the lies, the truth will always prevail.

We are aware that, they are only banking on going to the Supreme Court, where they feel that, they can subvert the will of the Oyo State people, but, the judiciary will not compromise its integrity, or join themselves with those within and external influence, who wants to play dirty, or set the state on fire.

Micheal calls on President Buhari, to call his APC members to order, to avert any possible situation where there will be break down of law and order in Oyo State, stressed further that, at this point, Nigerians must unite irrespective of their political leaning because, a mandate that has been decided by the people cannot be stolen through the court, that, any move to clamp down on the people may lead to revolution in the country.

The group urges the good people of Oyo State, to remain steadfast and continue to support Makinde because he is the God sent, who will bring massive development in education, agriculture, mass housing, industrial revolution, good healthcare system and abundant prosperity to all the citizens of the State.



			
			PV: 
			0