The news of Juventus striker Mario Mandzukic reportedly deciding that his best option is a move to Manchester United has left United fans in celebrations.
Mario Mandzukic has reportedly decided that a move to Man United is his best option
And this reported move could be made in December before a transfer can be completed in January.
National Daily gathered from a report by Tuttosport that Mario Mandzukic has reportedly decided on a move to Manchester United – and he could start training with the club in December.
Mandzukic is ready to move to Old Trafford in December to facilitate adaptation
The Croatian is tipped to complete a move from Juventus when the January transfer window opens amid reports sporting director Fabio Paratici flew to London this week to finalise the deal at United’s London HQ.
Mandzukic has not played a game this season under Maurizio Sarri and has been training away from the first team to keep up his fitness levels ahead of a move.
Despite being linked with a big-money move to Qatar, National Daily learnt from a claim by Tuttosport that Mandzukic has decided United represents his best chance to get an immediate return to first-team football.
And he is prepared to start training with the Red Devils next month, before the January transfer window opens and a move can be completed, in order to ensure he is ready to make an instant impact.
Juventus are said to be holding out for a €10million fee, whilst United were previously said to have offered the striker an 18-month contract worth around £85,000 per week.
Mandzukic, 33, is believed to be keen on the move to resume his career having been left out in the cold in Turin.
Speaking last month about the situation, Paratici told Sky Italia: “We are talking to Mandzukic to find the best possible solution.
We remain open to any scenario, so staying here or going elsewhere. We are discussing it to find the best solution for both parties.”
Mandzukic scored nine goals in 25 Serie A appearances last season but has been deemed surplus to requirements under new boss Sarri.
He would offer a new dimension to United’s attack under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, which has struggled for goals this season but recently boosted by Anthony Martial’s return.
 

			
			PV: 
			0