The headline sponsor of the 33rd edition of the Lagos International Trade Fair currently holding in Lagos, United Bank for Africa (UBA), has reiterated its committed to its numerous customers in creating superior banking services for them.
Speaking at the flag-off ceremony of the event at Tafawa Balewa Square, CEO of UBA, Victor Osadolor assured the bank’s customers that UBA will continue to promote cutting edge technology in making sure customers get superior value services.
Osadolor restated UBA’s commitment to continue investing heavily in technology to remain a pillar to millions of businesses that have not only chosen to bank with UBA, but have also partnered the bank for growth.
Osadolor used the occasion to launch another first of its kind in Nigeria’s financial sector, from UBA, called self-printing debit card machine, targeted at encouraging increased use of debit cards which also offers more options to pay.
The new self-printing debit card machine will allow for seamless business transactions with great value to customers and businesses.
He stated that that there is no gainsaying that the world is tilting into a knowledge-based economy, adding that businesses that would survive in the 21st century must invest in technology to remain competitive.
“Most of our customers have enjoyed free advisory services that have helped them navigate the very difficult business terrain. We also have businesses, latching on to our technological assets to improve their services as well as foster growth.”
“We are consistently supporting our SMES. We have a huge amount of funds allocated to SMEs. UBA is committed to supporting entrepreneurship. We are the major promoter of the Fair. The new self-printing debit card machine will go a long way in allowing for seamless business transactions with attendant value to businesses.”
He stated that: “At UBA, we are committed to being role models for African businesses by creating superior value for all the stakeholders. Therefore we have over the years recorded increased growth.”
According to Osadolor, UBA also keys into government intervention funds to expand access to credit facilities at competitive interest rates, while providing services such as advisory and technological infrastructure that help to reduce the cost of doing business.
He further said, the bank’s small and medium scale enterprise banking unit has been actively supporting small businesses with industry-specific loans that ensure maximum impact.
Earlier in his remark, the President of LCCI, Mr. Babatunde Ruwase commended UBA for its innovative services and commitment to development of small scale businesses.
Speaking further on the partnership with UBA, he said: “The LCCI and UBA have partnered to give exciting services to visitors and exhibitors at the fair.
“UBA is a foremost Pan African financial institution operating in 20 African countries, including the United Kingdom, the USA and France, thus offering unique services to the delight of visitors and exhibitors during the fair. This tells you that, we are more than committed to ensuring the business environment is beneficial for all investors.

			
			PV: 
			0