Reports reaching National Daily reveal that Pep Guardiola has refused to rule out Mikel Arteta as a possible replacement for Unai Emery as Arsenal boss.
Arteta works as Guardiola’s assistant at Manchester City and has helped the Spaniard guide the Citizens to consecutive Premier League titles.
Guardiola has not failed to rule out Arteta as Emery possible replacement
Arteta, who represented Arsenal from 2011 to 2016, was linked with the Arsenal manager’s job when Arsene Wenger stepped down after 22 years.
Arteta was initially linked with Arsenal job after Wenger’s exit
The Spaniard was even interviewed for the job and was a firm favourite to replace the legendary Frenchman, but was pipped at the post by Unai Emery National Daily learnt.
A year on and Emery is struggling at Arsenal.
The Gunners are floundering in the league and haven’t tasted victory in their past six fixtures.
The Spaniard is under intense pressure to turn things around – which he admitted in his post-match press conference following Saturday’s draw with Southampton – and appears to have Arteta breathing down his neck.
Guardiola was asked if his assistant could leave the Etihad for the Emirates – should Emery get the sack – and he failed to rule it out.
“For sure he will be a manager. I would like him to stay with us as long as possible. But personal life is personal life, his professional desire is professional,” he said.
Arsenal dropped two more points on the weekend as supporters grew increasingly angry at the lack of direction being shown on the pitch.
Speaking after the match Emery said: “The club are supporting me every day and also I have a responsibility.
“I know I can do better, I can take more performances with the players and I’m going to try to do that. Now my job is to analyse, to try and move on with confidence with the players.
“It’s difficult but we need to move on in the next days. After analysing that match we are going to play at home again on Thursday, prepare as well as possible.
“We know, and I know, that we need to connect with our supporters.”
 

			
			PV: 
			0