Reports reaching National Daily reveal that Manchester United will go all out for Erling Haaland in January.
Haaland will no doubt strengthen United attack with his potentials
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is keen to add firepower up front with Marcus Rashford currently leading the line and Red Bull Salzburg ace Haaland is the man at the top of his wishlist.
Haaland will no doubt strengthen United attack with his potentials
The 19-year-old has bagged 26 goals in 18 appearances this season prompting the likes of Liverpool, Real Madrid and Barcelona to take notice.
National Daily gathered from the report by the Times that United are prepared to get ahead of their rivals and will launch a bid in January.
Any deal for the Norwegian is expected to cost over £60m with the Austrian side reluctant to part with their star man midway through the campaign.
Reports from the club scouts have impressed United’s hierarchy and they feel they must act now or face an even tougher battle to sign him in the summer when his price tag could rise.
However, that’s not the only transfer Solskjaer has his eye on with the report claiming Leceister’s ’s James Maddison and Borussia Dortmund winger Jadon Sancho are on his wishlist.
United will unlikely make a move for Maddison in the New Year though with Leicester determined not to part with the midfielder.
And while Sancho is said to be looking for a switch away from Dortmund after growing frustrated with manager Lucien Favre, he favours a move to Spain.
United will hope Sancho is still available in the summer and can then launch an ambitious move to bring him to Old Trafford, as well as Maddison.
But for now it seems the focus is on beating their European rivals to Haaland’s signature.
The player’s father,Alf-Hinge, has already visited Carrington which left staff convinced a move will be on the cards.
United will have to fork out big though with Salzburg boss Jesse Marsch admitting this week he hopes the club don’t sell in the winter window.

			
			PV: 
			0