A groundswell of opposition against the Aso Rock cabal has begun all the way from the US, and the branch of the ruling APC is behind it.
In addition to the trio allegedly running the presidency for President Muammadu Buhari, the US branch of the APC is also targeting a southwest governor who is a sweetheart to the cabal.
The governor is also said to nurse the 2023 ambition, which is why the US APC concludes the cabal is hoping to use him to replace V.P. Osinbajo who many Nigerians believe is facing humiliation from the cabal.
According to them, the cabal is using Ekiti Gov. Kayode Fayemi to thwart moves towards ensuring that a competent “Yoruba man” succeeds Buhari in 2023.
The group insisted Osinbajo deserves some credit in the current government—that the major achievements of Buhari’s administration would have been impossible without the vice president.
One of them, a judge in the US, who is also a leader of the APC, said politicians should leave the President and his Vice out of their games, so they can focus on governance.
“Any humiliation of the VP or Asiwaju Tinubu or other leaders will not be acceptable. All these shenanigans are because of 2023,” said Dele Alade was quoted as saying by the Daily Post.
“Kayode Fayemi has to be very careful.’
Alade said VP Osinbajo has done a great job.
“Rather than helping Buhari/Osinbajo concentrate on delivering better governance to our people, some crazy elements and enemies of progress are bent on destroying the gains made so far and paralyzing governance.
“Tens of millions of Nigerians are suffering because of this. Only those lazy government officials who live on government and/or on government welfare (and not on their ingenuity) are unconcerned. We’re watching and we will hold them accountable.”
“What a proverbial “Hammer throwing at the head.” This cabal is a basket case, a prodigal son,” said another APC chieftain the newspaper quoted.
“Thanks for exposing the scum bag, a fraud. No wonder the cabal are using him to depose VP Osinbajo, so rather than having a competent Yoruba man as the next President, the coup plotters are already entrenched in diversionary and overt shenanigans with the help of the likes of Fayemi.”
Also, a leader of the party and former leader of PRONACO in the US,  said the contributions of the vice president should be applauded.
“This is just a reminder that the clock cannot be turned back. The very best of this administration’s initiatives be it Homegrown School Feeding Program, N-Power, GEEP Programs, Niger-Delta Peace initiatives, Energizing Education and Market Initiatives, etc came out of the Office of the Vice President and not at the President’s Office or the Ministries, Department and Agencies,” said Baba Adam.
Adam revealed the decision by the US government to deny Fayemi entry visa was in order.
He said Fayemi was denied the USA visa like hundreds of thousands of other Nigerians, adding that what happened to the governor was just the beginning.
“So you want to be the next Nigerian Vice President?” he asked.
“You as a person from the South West – through your in-action you may have endorsed the ongoing insults by the Cabal on VP Pst. Prof. Osinbajo, SAN, GCON… and remember he is highly regarded at the White House – so they are sending you and others ‘clear shot across the bow.
“If you do not heed this warning – next – worldwide freezing of you and your friend’s assets,” he said.
He stated that the ‘body bag’ comments by Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has not gone unnoticed by the US and United Kingdom, UK governments.
El-Rufai warned during the last presidential election that any foreign military influence in the name of observer mission in Nigeria would see the foreign agents taken bag in body bags.
 
 

			
			PV: 
			0