The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has boasted that it was going to win the November 16 governorship in Kogi state, despite the threat of violence by the ruling party and its candidate, Governor Yahaya Bello.
The PDP said its position was predicated on reported threats by Bello and the APC “to unleash violence and disrupt its campaigns in Kogi Central and other areas where its candidate, Engr. Musa Wada enjoys massive support.”
In a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP also condemned the violent attack on the state secretariat of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) allegedly by APC thugs and urged the police to bring the perpetrators of the crime to book.
He said: “As a party, we have on a good authority how Governor Bello and his agents have been threatening the lives of PDP leaders in Kogi Central, all in their failed bid to instill fear on the people and frustrate our campaigns in the area.
“However, the PDP cautions Yahaya Bello and his party to note that nothing will stop our party and the peoples’ candidate, Engr. Musa Wada, from campaigning and consolidating our support in Kogi Central and across the state.
“The people of Kogi state are on the move with the PDP in their readiness to confront and dismantle the machinations of Yahaya Bello and no amount of violence and death threats can change this resolve.”
The PDP, therefore urged the Inspector- General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, and the military hierarchy to immediately call Bello and the APC to order.
“Our party draws the attention of security agencies to reports that APC and agents of Governor Yahaya Bello have a training ground for thugs in Kogi Central District, who would be later armed with dangerous weapons to perpetuate violence during the election.
“There are also reports that the APC and agents of Yahaya Bello are sewing fake military, police and Civil Defence uniforms to be used by their thugs to cause mayhem during the election,” he added.


			
			PV: 
			0