The leader of the RevolutionNow Movement, Omoyele Sowore, may have engaged the President, Omega Fire Ministries Worldwide, Apostle Johnson Suleman, in a seeming war over the pledge by the clergy to stand surety for the publisher of Sahara Reporters, an offer rejected by Sowore who has been in the detention of the federal government on treasonable prosecution.
Suleman had in a tweet on Monday volunteered to stand for the freedom of Sowore from detention after the court had granted him bail and no one had stepped forward to stand surety for the RevolutionNow leader. The clergy, however, triggered controversy when he noted  that though Sowore had hurt many people in the past — including himself; insisting  that he is of the opinion that Sowore should not be allowed to “rot where he is.” This additional comment infuriated Sowore who rejected Suleiman’s offer by fiat.
Inibehe Effiong, a counsel to Sowore, had noted that Suleman is not eligible to stand surety for his client because the court was clear that the surety must be resident in Abuja.
“His (Suleman’s) offer cannot be considered let alone accepted. The man who is making the offer is on record of having had a public altercation with Sowore. So, there will be no basis for Sowore to consider it.
“The court stated that the surety must be resident in Abuja and the last time I checked, he was not resident in Abuja. So, I am not sure he is eligible to stand surety for him. So there is no way Sowore can accept such an offer.
“So, we are turning it down and we are not even considering it. The way the Federal Government politicised the matter, made it difficult for the bail conditions to be met. But we are in the process of perfecting the bail,” the lawyer stated.
Inibehe Effiong also acknowledged that Apostle Suleman was involved in a public altercation with Sowore and, therefore, there was conflict of interest.
Sowore had in a report published SaharaReporters, accused Suleman of engaging in extra-marital affairs with a woman known as Stephanie Otobo.
The Convener of #RevolutionNow was arrested by the Department of State Services on August 2, 2019, for mobilizing mass action across the country.
Sowore was the Presidential candidate of the African Action Congress.

			
			PV: 
			0