The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate in the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State, Engr. Musa Wada, on Monday declared that there was no election in Kogi on the Election Day, protesting that Governor Yahaya Bello and the All Progressives Congress (APC) used the Police and other security operatives to declare war against the people of Kogi State.
Accordingly, Engr. Musa Wada, declared that the PDP and the overwhelming majority of the people of Kogi State, including himself, have rejected the conduct and outcome of the gubernatorial election held on November 16, 2019 in the state.
“It is clear to the all there was no election on Saturday, November 16th 2019 but a declaration and execution of war against the people.
“What happened in Kogi was an organized war against democracy; coup against the people and seizure of power through brigandage and the barrel of the gun with members of the Police and other security agencies coordinating the stealing of the people’s votes,” PDP had declared.
The Police were alleged to have aided armed APC thugs to invade polling units with impunity, shoot and kill voters and carted away ballot boxes to government facilities where results were written in favour of APC and handed over to INEC to announce against the will of the people.
Police helicopters were said to be used to attack polling units, fire tear gas on voters and provide cover to APC hoodlums and policemen who brutalized the people of Kogi State and stole their mandate.
“The APC turned our state into a theatre of war. “No fewer than nine innocent Nigerians were killed. Many more were maimed and injured by the APC in their desperation to seize power at all cost.
“It is, therefore, distressing that INEC went ahead with a shameful collation and declaration of fabricated results despite the glaring disruptions that characterized the shambolic exercise.
“In order to achieve this ignoble goal, INEC cancelled our votes in areas of our stronghold, subtracted from our votes in many other areas and padded the votes of APC to give a semblance of victory for APC.
“The people of Kogi were horrified, brutalized and dehumanized. There have been weeping across the state since the announcement of another four years of Yahaya Bello.
“We, therefore, stand with the people of Kogi to state without equivocation that this brigandage and stealing of our mandate cannot stand.
“We will never despair but remain strong in our determination to retrieve the mandate freely given to us by the people in their desire for a change.
“We will pursue this course to its logical conclusion within the confines of the law of this country.
“We commend the people of Kogi State for their resilience in the face of all intimidation. They showed, once again, that nobody can suppress their will at any time.
“Our campaign mourns our compatriots that were killed by the APC; their blood demand for justice and we will ensure that they did not die in vain.
“Above all, the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, and the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, will surely account to God and the people for the roles they played in this election; if not in this world, then, certainly in the hereafter.
“We, therefore, call on all Nigerians to stand with the people of Kogi State at this trying time as they quest for the restoration of their mandate in this election,” PDP declared.









			
			PV: 
			0