Unai Emery’s misery at Arsenal was brought to an end on Friday morning with the Spaniard sacked after 18 months of replacing Arsene Wenger at the Emirates.
Unai Emery was shown the exit door at the Emirates after 18 months
The sack of the Spaniard many will argue was long overdue because of Arsenal’s poor results lately as the north London club recorded their highest winless run since 1992.
Many world class coaches like Carlo Ancelloti, Bredan Rodgers and even Maricio Pochetino have been tipped to take over from Freddie Ljungberg who was appointed as an interim Arsenal manager.
Meanwhile, National Daily learnt that the leading candidate for the role of a permanent manager at Emirates has been revealed as the Wolves boss Nuno Espirito Santo who though initially refused to comment on speculation linking him with the Arsenal job out of respect for Unai Emery.
The Wolves manager has been revealed as the top candidate to replace Emery after his impressive performance with the midlands club.
Meanwhile, Wolves under Santo have already booked their place in the next round, and sit three places ahead of Arsenal in the Premier League.
Santo has emerged as the leading candidate to replace Emery at Arsenal
Asked whether there were any truth to the rumours linking him with the Arsenal post, Santo replied: “I think you know me well enough and you know that I’m not going to answer about that.
“I will never mention an issue that’s not a reality. Mainly because the job has a manager in it. It would be disrespectful.”
Santo is now almost favourite with bookmakers to replace Emery, as the Spaniard has been shown the exit door on Friday before Arsenal’s next match with Norwich.
Emery before his sack by Arsenal watched his side throw away the lead at the Emirates to lose 2-1 to Frankfurt on Thursday night in their penultimate Europa League qualifier before his sack the next morning..
The defeat was Arsenal’s seventh match without a win, and it means they must go to Standard Liege in their final group fixture and get a result in order to progress.
 




			
			PV: 
			0