All is now set for th 11th Edition of Pa Michael imoudu memorial football tournament for under 19 male  and female Teams  in Nigeria,National Daily learnt.
The annual football tournament in memory of the first labour leader in Nigeria (Pa Michael imoudu) is being Put together by the Federation of Youth Soccer Clubs ( Feysoc) South South zone, with  the Eighteen local Government councils of Edo state  represented at the event alongside Private teams from across the country.
The week long soccer carnival that  will hold from November 15th –  22nd 2019 at Sabongidda Ora, Adminstrative headquartesrs of Owan West local Government Area(Host/sponsors)  is expected to be declare opened by the sports loving  Deputy Governor of Edo state, Rt hon Comrade  Philip Shaibu,.
According to the Executive chairman of Owan west local government Area Hon Frank ilaboya, the council is ready to stage the event in memory of Pa Michael imoudu who sacrifice so much for labour during his life time, adding that the  football tournament is coming at a time the council has set out Programs to engaged the youth of the locality meaningfully.
” The history of the Nigeria labour congress can’t be told without the name Pa Michael imoudu who sacrifice so much for labour, he Promoted and defended the rights and the social well being of the Nigerian workers.
For me the football tournament in his memory is coming at the right time, as we have lined up various  Programs to engaged the youth of Owan west local government area,  ilaboya stated.
The Digital chairman as he is fondly called by his admirers said this       edition of imoudu cup will be different from previous events  as some fresh ideas will be added to make it worthwhile.
Pa Michael imoudu who hails from Oke – Ora, of Owan west local government area of Edo state, donated the trophy for Youth football in Nigeria in 1999, to the federation of youth soccer clubs ( Feysoc) for Grassroot football development.
Meanwhile, the national President of the Federation of youth soccer clubs, Alhaji lawal Futua has congratulate Hon Frank ilaboya as one of the awardee by Edo state Government Agency, Edo jobs project in recognition of his Youth empowerment programs in the state.
Alhaji Futua praised the efforts of the former Edo FA boss for engaging the Youth of Owan west local government area meaningfully.

			
			PV: 
			0