The 18 Local Government Chairmen of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State have added to the inferno engulfing the state party with a call on the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to expel Governor Godwin Obaseki from the party.
The 18 LGA APC chairmen made the call on Tuesday in a statement jointly signed by the Chairman of the body and Etsako West Chairman, Ibrahim Akokia, and his Etsako Central and Owan West counterparts, Suleiman Bagudu and Lugard Alukpe, respectively.
The 18 LGA  chairmen had denied passing vote of no confidence on the APC national chairman which led to the suspension of Oshiomhole from the APC by the leadership in Edo State.
The state party leadership had earlier explained in a statement issued earlier that Oshiomhole was suspended because of the vote of no confidence passed on him by the APC LG chairmen.
The 18 LGA chairmen dissociated themselves from the passing of a vote of no confidence on the APC national chairman, leading to the suspension of Oshiomhole on Tuesday.
The LG chairmen accused Governor Obaseki of harassment and intimidation, expressing that his actions could pull down the APC in Edo State.
“He is on a mission to destroy APC in Edo State but we will resist it,” the LG chairmen declared.
They maintained: “We are the chairmen of the party in the 18 LGAs and we are not aware of the meeting where a vote of no confidence was passed on the national chairman of our party, Comrade Oshiomhole, who is doing very well.
“Rather, we are aware that majority of the chairmen haven suffered intimidation, harassment and assault in the hands of the Governor Godwin Obaseki administration, what we have never seen in the politics of our dear state.”
The LG chairmen, thereafter, passed a vote of no confidence on Governor Obaseki and the State APC Chairman, Anslem Ojezua.
They stated that both men have not only failed the party but the people of the state, alleging that they have been involved in anti-party activities and lacked the moral rights to remain in the APC.
“Oshiomhole remains our leader and we pass vote of confidence on his leadership.
“It is sad that the governor and his cohorts are using money to induce our members but majority of them, we are happy, have resisted his moves to intimidate them,” the 18 LG chairmen declared.

			
			PV: 
			0