National Daily gathered that Arsenal players have reportedly lost faith in Unai Emery and no longer believe he has what it takes to save their season.
Unai Emery has been thrown into more severe pressure after Arsenal draw against Southampton pix
This latest development has left the Gunners fans reacting. While some would have fancied Emery sacked immediately after last Saturday game, others are still sympathizing with him as they want the club to give more time to turn things around.
The Gunners have failed to win in their last six and are on a downward spiral under the Spaniard in the Premier League.
Arsenal players have reportedly lost faith in Emery
As things stand Arsenal are as close to the relegation zone as they are the Champions League places, and as you would expect, Emery is under intense pressure to turn things around or face being sacked.
Meanwhile, Arsenal head of football Raul Sanllehi has backed his compatriot to get the club firing again National Daily further learnt.
The Spaniard has even been trying to convince the other board members that Emery is still the right man for the job, but time is quickly running out for the Arsenal boss.
It’s safe to say that things are looking bleak for Emery, and according to The Telegraph they may be getting even worse.
The paper is reporting that Arsenal players have been confused by their manager’s tactics and instructions and are concerned by the direction he is taking the club.
Many reportedly feel that Arsenal has no identity under the Spaniard, and they lack the belief that he has what it takes to turn things around.
Arsenal dropped two points at home to Southampton this weekend, salvaging a point with the final kick of the game courtesy of Alexandre Lacazette.
Emery said: “The club are supporting me every day and also I have a responsibility.
Arsenal dropped two points at home to Southampton this weekend, salvaging a point with the final kick of the game courtesy of Alexandre Lacazette.
Emery said: “The club are supporting me every day and also I have a responsibility.
“I know I can do better, I can take more performances with the players and I’m going to try to do that. Now my job is to analyse, to try to move on with confidence with the players.
“It’s difficult but we need to move on in the next days. After analysing that match we are going to play at home again on Thursday, prepare as well as possible.
“We know, and I know, that we need to connect with our supporters.”




			
			PV: 
			0