By Olanrewaju Adesanya

The Action Democratic Party (ADP) felicitates with the former President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan as he clocks sixty-two  (62) years old.

The party in a statement by its National Chairman of the party, Engr. Yusuf Sani Yabagi, noted that Dr. Goodluck Jonathan remains the hero of our democracy, because, he demonstrated that use of violence or bloodshed in attaining any political power negates its sacred essence.

ADP praises Jonathan, that his tenure was largely characterized by peaceful coexistence amongst the majority of Nigerians.

According to Sani, he said that, on behalf of all the members of the ADP home and abroad, friends and well wishers of the party, they wish the former President, a happy birthday, wishing him and his family more life and protection from God almighty.

The party charged other political leaders across the country, to emulate the humility of the former President, who never saw a need to foist himself on Nigerians at the time he contested for a re-election.
“All leaders must continue to abide by the laws as enshrined in the country’s constitution.

“Power ultimately resides  with God Almighty alone, leaders should attain power through peaceful means not by visiting misery and torture on others.

“Dr. Jonathan is a father of the Nation, who demonstrated that he was a pro Nigeria, when he established Nine (9) additional Federal Universities, majorly cited in the Northern part of the country, in his quest to ensure that all states of the federation have a Federal University.

” He also went ahead, to build schools for the Almajiris, because he wanted a better life for all Nigerian children. He recoached our railway lines, built new track lanes to standard gauge, there were many other giant stride he achieved. During his time, Nigeria’s GDP was over $500b.

“We as a party can only pray to God Almighty to keep protecting him and his family, as we believe that he still has a leadership role to play, for the development of peace and unity of the country”.ADP said.

			
			PV: 
			0