Reports reaching National Daily reveal that Lionel Messi is set to pip Virgil van Dijk to the Ballon d’Or when the award is handed out in Paris next week.
Lionel Messi is set to beat Virgil van Dijk to the Ballon d’Or Award
The Barcelona fans have been left in ecstatic mood as their talismanic superstar has emerged as favourite to claim football’s biggest individual honour, ahead of the Liverpool defender, after the pair have traded honours in recent months.
Van Dijk took the top award at UEFA’s awards back in August, following his displays in last season’s Champions League.
Van Dijk scooped UEFA player of the year award
But he was beaten to FIFA’s The Best Men’s Player award back in September, with 32 year-old Messi emerging triumphant in a glitzy award ceremony in Milan.
Messi won the Fifa best male Player of the Year Award
Now Messi, who won the 10th La Liga title of his illustrious career last term, is seemingly set to pip the Dutch giant and land his sixth crown, as awarded by France Football.
Messi has already emerged as favourite with bookmakers, since the closing date of November 9 for journalists’ votes from around the world.
Protocol ahead of the Golden Ball formalities usually sees a team from the magazine travel to visit the winner in the week preceding the awards ceremony.
National Daily gathered from a report by Mundo Deportivo that a team from France Football did indeed travel to Barcelona on Monday to interview Messi for their upcoming issue; Messi’s representatives would neither confirm nor deny the meeting.
Tuesday’s front page of Mundo Deportivo
The claims also come at a time where Messi, as part of an upcoming documentary for OTRO, has posed with his five golden ball trophies ahead of the 64th annual Ballon d’Or ceremony in Paris, taking place on Monday December 2.
Messi holds the joint-record for most wins of the award with five, along with long-time rival Cristiano Ronaldo.
Meanwhile, Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp declared on Sunday night that Van Dijk should be the winner if the award stays true to its roots.
“If you give the Ballon d’Or to the best player of his generation, you give it always to Lionel Messi, that’s how it is,” said Klopp. “If you give it to the best player of last season then it was Virgil van Dijk.
“I don’t know exactly how it will work but that’s how I see it.
“If it’s for the best player, the best player at all, and of all, then it’s Lionel, (but if it is for) best player of last season, (then it’s) Virgil. We will see.”
Messi will make his 700th appearance for Barcelona when they face Borussia Dortmund in the Champions League on Wednesday.
 




			
			PV: 
			0