Fingers Governor Fayemi

Leaders of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in the United States, have raised the alarm over a plot by certain group in the Presidency to undermine the position of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, using Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti state, who is from the same geo-political zone.
A renowned judge in the United States, and leader of the APC, Dele Alade, said politicians should leave the President and his Vice out of their games, so they can focus on governance.
“Kayode Fayemi has to be very careful. VP Osinbajo has done a great job. We know it. Nigerians know it. Rather than helping Buhari/Osinbajo concentrate on delivering better governance to our people, some crazy elements and enemies of progress are bent on destroying the gains made so far and paralyzing governance.
“Tens of millions of Nigerians are suffering because of this. Only those lazy government officials who live on government and/or on government welfare (and not on their ingenuity) are unconcerned. We’re watching and we will hold them accountable.”
Another chieftain of APC said: “What a proverbial “Hammer throwing at the head.” This cabal is a basket case, a prodigal son.
“Thanks for exposing the scum bag, a fraud. No wonder the Cabals are using him to depose VP Osinbajo, so rather than having a competent Yoruba man as the next President, the coup plotters are already entrenched in diversionary and overt shenanigans with the help of the likes of Fayemi.”
Also, a leader of the party in the US, Baba Adam, said the contributions of the Vice President should be applauded.
Adam, who was a former US leader of Pro National Conference Organisations, PRONACO said: “This is just a reminder that the clock cannot be turned back. The very best of this administration’s initiatives be it Homegrown School Feeding Program, N-Power, GEEP Programs, Niger-Delta Peace initiatives, Energizing Education and Market Initiatives, etc came out of the Office of the Vice President and not at the President’s Office or the Ministries, Department and Agencies.”
The Borno state citizen who is a former chairman of Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) also waded into the decision by the US government to deny Fayemi entry visa.
He said Fayemi was denied the USA visa like hundreds of thousands of other Nigerians, adding that what happened to the governor was just the beginning.
“So you want to be the next Nigerian Vice President? He quizzed. “You as a person from the South West – through your in-action you may have endorsed the ongoing insults by the Cabal on VP Pst. Prof. Osinbajo, SAN, GCON… and remember he is highly regarded at the White House – so they are sending you and others ‘clear shot across the bow,” he added.
He stated that the ‘body bag’ comments by Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has not gone unnoticed by the US and United Kingdom, UK governments.

			
			PV: 
			0