By Olanrewaju Adesanya

The Oyo State Development Advocacy Group (OSDAG) has alerted Nigerians on an alleged attempt to kidnap the Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde and other dignitaries of the Peoples Democratic Party in an Hotel in Lokoja, by some unidentified masked men in Nigeria’s security uniform today.

OSDAG maintained that if any thing untoward happens to Makinde,during and after the governorship poll holding on Saturday in Kogi State,Nigerians  and international leaders should hold the APC, Yahaya Bello and others in their party responsible.

Governor Makinde is the Chairman of the National campaign committee of his party PDP for the election at hand.

In a release made available to newsmen by the Oyo based group, Oyo State Development Advocacy group (OSDAG), the spokesman of the group, Mr Micheal Ogunsina, said that, APC should not allow despiracy to rail road them into trouble.

“If anything should happen to the governor, they will have to contend with all Nigerians.”

Micheal also said that, his group is charging the inspector General of Police, Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, to immediately provide adequate Security around the governor.
OSDAG also urge him to set up an investigative panel, that will fish out the perpetrator of the attack.

“Nigerians will be very much interested in knowing those who went to the hotel where the governor lodged in hooded mask.

The group thanked the good people of Kogi State, who besieged the hotel, to join others to repel the bandits.

The group however,berates Aisha Buhari and Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasiru Elrufai, that if they had prevailed on Yahaya Bello to pay the pensioners and civil servants in Kogi State, he won’t be this desperate to cling on to power for the second term.

“Yahaya Bello, who blew the youthful opportunity given to him, when he inherited an election won by the late former Governor, Prince Audu Abubakar, he ought to know that there will be a day of reckoning for all his misrule.
“He should not direct his anger on Makinde, who is tasked with the assignment of delivering a people’s centric governor for the Kogi People. “OSDAG said.






			
			PV: 
			0