Arsenal can rightfully be called a giant in English football after collecting 13 First Division titles and 13 FA Cups. They have collectively won 46 elite trophies which makes them the third-most successful English club ever.
Their form has dipped in recent times with the club falling out of the Champions League. But the Gunners have appointed a new boss in Unai Emery, who has been directed to return the club back to winning ways. Let us take a look at all the popular faces among the club’s fan base.
10. Piers Morgan
Believe it or not but Piers Morgan is not the most controversial person on this list as you will find out soon enough. The English television personality who has made a career out of voicing his opinions is a big Arsenal fan with very quick Twitter fingers.
Once he starts a rant on the social platform, there is no stopping him. I mean, the man’s cover picture is that of Thierry Henry and Dennis Bergkamp.
9. Jay-Z Is A Famous Arsenal Fan
The American musician and global phenom is a self-professed Arsenal fan and nothing proves it than his allegiance to the club through his very own company.
Back in 2018, Goal.com reported that the North London outfit had agreed on a partnership with a music streaming service called, Tidal worth £1m a year. Jay-Z shares ownership of the company along with Rihanna, Kanye West, Usher and his wife, Beyonce.
The songwriter famously told the press once that he would be willing to move to London in order to be closer to the club. His support for Arsenal began when he became friends with Thierry Henry.
He was quoted, “We would have to spend much more time in London. ‘Bey’ knows how much I love sports and has known about my interest in Arsenal for a while.
“I never want to be a back-seat investor. I want to be on the board, involved in the decision-making… I’m at the stage of my career where I am ready for another investment like this.
“I have really got into soccer over the last 10 years and I’ve been saying for some time I want a percentage of Arsenal.”
8. David Gilmour & Roger Waters Are Famous Arsenal Fans
The famous guitarist and bassist of one of the greatest rock bands ever, Pink Floyd, are known to be Arsenal fans. They are not the best of friends but despite their differences, both are die-hard Gunners supporters.
Some believe the song, ‘Us and them’ might actually be written about the rivalry between Arsenal and Chelsea.
7. Dido
Dido has been caught on camera plenty of times at the Emirates. She became a supporter, all thanks to her dad, who used to take her to Arsenal games since she was just 3.
6. Spike Lee
The American director also became an Arsenal fan after developing a close friendship with Thierry Henry. He has been noticed wearing the famous red and white jersey whilst filming on set. Lee reportedly even spectated a lot of games back in the Highbury.
5. Mo Farah
10 Most Famous Arsenal Fans
Mo Farah is an Olympic gold medalist with innumerable accolades in marathon running and athletics. The 36-year-old famously even wanted Arsene Wenger to sign him up at Arsenal.
Farah described his visit to the Emirates stadium as a “dream come true”. He added, “I don’t think I’d be any good at playing, but I’d like to help out at the Gunners for sure.
“I was talking to my wife the other day and I said: ‘I’d make a good fitness coach for the team or something. I could try to help players if they were injured or going through hard times, be able to do little things with them.’”
4. Mick Jagger
The Rolling Stones lead singer has been a Gunner forever now even at a ripe old age of 75. He goes to watch Arsenal and the Three Lions whenever he gets a chance.
3. Fidel Castro
The Cuban communist leader, who died in April 2011 was a famous Arsenal fan. Castro enjoyed watching the Gunners since the ’70s and was rumoured to be denied entry into the stadium where the 1993/94 European Winner’s Cup was played due to him carrying a firearm.
2. Osama Bin Laden
The most famous terrorist among all terrorists was known to be a massive Arsenal fan. Bin Laden reportedly oversaw the club’s impressive run to the 1993/94 European Winner’s Cup and even bought his eldest son, Abdullah an Ian Wright jersey.
1. The Queen Of England
I don’t think anything can get bigger than the Queen of England supporting Arsenal and we have Cesc Fabregas to thank for this revelation. Sources close to British royalty have disclosed that Her Majesty has been a fan for over 50 years.
Fabregas, during his days as a Gooner, got to meet the Queen and have a short conversation with her. He later revealed on some Spanish radio, “It seems the Queen follows football, and she told us she was an Arsenal fan. She appeared to definitely know who I was, and we exchanged a few special words.”

			
			PV: 
			0