A coalition, under the aegis of Nigeria Ethnic Nationalities Youth Leaders Forum (NENYLF) has expressed worries over what they described as “sudden purported indictment” of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Air Peace, Allen Onyema, by the United States Department of Justice.
According to the group, his sudden indictment smacks of a grand conspiracy and a concocted evil machinations by some global aviation giants and business rivals, in connivance with their American collaborators.
Chief Onyema was alleged to have moved more than $20 million from Nigeria through United States bank accounts in a scheme involving false documents based on the purchase of airplanes.
But the coalition in a statement at the weekend said as much as it appreciated the involvement of judiciary through the office of the US Attorney, that there was, however, compelling reason to question the sudden indictment.
The statement was signed by Alhaji Yerima Shetimma, chairman, NENYLF/President, Arewa Consultative Youth Forum; Aare Oladotun Hassan, Esq. secretary general, NENYLF/ President, Yoruba Council of Youths Worldwide; Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, deputy chairman, NENYLF/ President, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide; Barr Pereotubo Oweilaemi, Publicity Secretary, NENYLF/President, Ijaw Youth Council Worldwide.
“This raises fundamental questions about the bad timing and the growing suspicion of many Nigerians over the motive behind targeting our own distinguished Allen Ifeanyichukwu Onyeama: a detribalized Nigerian per excellence.
“We are beginning to see a pattern that portends more of smacks of a conspiracy by his business rivals in Nigeria, working together with their American and other foreign collaborators to rubbish one of the few outstanding a philanthropist in Nigeria.
“It was the same Onyeama who worked tirelessly to broker peace between the Coalition of Northern Groups and Igbos when it culminated into the quit notice issued on all Igbo residents in the North. He ensures that the Coalition of Northern Groups ‘Kaduna Declaration’ against Igbos was withdrawn and peace reigned in the end.
“It smacks of a grand conspiracy to see how the man is being prejudicially molested, pushed and pulled in many directions with accusations yet to be determined via a fair hearing trial by any court of competent jurisdiction in his fatherland, much less that of the United States.”
The youth leaders said they could perceive that “the ongoing US Attorney’s media trial as a well concerted and concocted evil machinations by some global aviation giants and business rivals, in connivance with their American collaborators.”




			
			PV: 
			0