Abubakar Bukola Saraki (ABS) Ilorin FC, has sent its assistant coach, Shuaib Abdulkadir on a coaching course,National Daily learnt.
Abdulkadir who was unveiled alongside the team’s Head Coach, Yomi Elijah on Thursday, Sept. 26, is among many other coaches across Nigeria attending
Football Coaches Association of African Nations (FCAAN) “D” -Diploma course in Akure the Ondo State, capital.
The founder of FCAAN, Dr Babatunde Terry Eguaoje  alongside UEFA A licensed Coach, Kyle Quigley are to take the coaches on the latest in football in the 5-day event which began on Monday in Akure.
The ABS Director of Football (DOF), Alloy Chukwuemeka, told National Daily that it is promise made and promise kept.
“I mentioned it that we are going to send Abdulkadir on a coaching course when we unveiled him.
“It is not our first time of doing this to our coaches, it is a way to reward their contributions to the development of grassroots football in the state.
“Again, very soon we are going to update this certificate for him as he will proceed to the Nigeria institute of sports for further training” Chukwuemeka said.
The Nigeria Premier Club Owners’ Scribe, said the club will continue to contribute its quota to the development of football in the state by encouraging young players and coaches to become superstars and help more people to achieve their dreams in line with the vision of the owner of the club Dr. Bukola Saraki
Coach Abdulkadir, popularly known as No Fear, is excited about the opportunity given to him by the club and was full of praises for Chukwuemeka.
“Well, for me it is a dream come through, this is big step in my career as a coach and I will forever be grateful to Chukwuemeka and ABS for the opportunity.
“I am lost of words to describe how I feel about this right now, this will definitely spur me to do more for the grassroots.
“This is a golden opportunity that I will forever live to remember” Abdulkadir said.
ABS will play in the group A1 of the abridged 2019/2020 Nigeria National League (NNL) season and they are to travel to Kada City for their first game when hostilities resume on Nov. 22.

			
			PV: 
			0