The sack of former Arsenal boss Unai Emery on Friday did not come as a surprise to many people. Recall that the Spaniard has been under immense pressure lately due to some undesirable results.
Unai Emery was sacked by Arsenal after 18 months
Before now, Real Madrid midfielder James Rodriguez has reportedly been linked with a move to Arsenal ahead of the January transfer window.
Reports reaching National Daily from Spain reveal that the Colombia midfielder has decided to stay at Real Madrid and fight for a place.
James Rodriguez has decided to remain at Real Madrid and fight for his place
This is a development that Arsenal fans obviously will be disappointed with as many of them have already revealed their desire to add Rodriguez
National Daily gathered that Real Madrid president Florentino Perez is keen on a £69million move for Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, with the possibility of including Rodriguez in a swap deal, as reported by El Desmarque earlier this month.
The same publication has since reported that Arsenal are willing to pay £35.8million for Rodriguez.
Arsenal already have a good working relationship with Real, having taken midfielder Dani Ceballos from Los Blancos on a season-long loan at the start of this campaign.
Meanwhile, National Daily further learnt from report by Marca , that Rodriguez would turn down a move to the Emirates, as he is determined to prove himself to Madrid boss Zinedine Zidane.
The 28-year-old has spent two seasons on loan at Bayern Munich, but the Bundesliga side did not take up the option to sign him permanently.
Rodriguez had requested the loan move after finding his playing time limited during Zidane’s previous spell as Madrid boss.
Now he finds himself playing under the former World Cup-winning midfielder again – and despite reports that Arsenal are willing to offer him the chance to test himself in the Premier League, it seems he wants to stay and prove himself to Zidane.
Rodriguez has so far made seven La Liga appearances, scoring one goal and providing one assist, in what has been an injury-hit season.
He is currently recovering from an injury suffered during the recent international break, with no date set for his return as yet.

			
			PV: 
			0