Nigerians on Saturday took to the twitter to heavily criticize Aisha Buhari over a statement credited to her over the controversial Social Media Bill.
Aisha Buhari was quoted to have said that If China could control over 1.3 billion people on social media, she sees no reason why Nigeria cannot attempt controlling only 180 million people.
She also slammed state governors and ministers for failing to provide basic social amenities and infrastructure, lamenting that things were getting out of hand.
Reacting on twitter, some users described her statement as largely unpatriotic.
According to a Twitter user, Osas Cruz, China executes its corrupt politicians, so the First Lady should advocate for that also.
@theOsasCruz wrote, “Dear…. Aisha Buhari, Now I know Buhari was Right, – Maybe you truly belong in the kitchen. China executes their corrupt politicians, let’s attempt that. Social media is not the problem of Nigeria, Corrupt politicians are the problem we have.”
Twitter user, @Zaddy_Nomso stated, “Dear Aisha Buhari China also kills their corrupt Politicians, we would love Nigeria to start practising that first. Your Aide stole over N2bn, where he saw that money only you know.”
@TosinOlugbenga tweeted; “Since the cabals threatened Aisha Buhari with marrying a new wife for Baba Buhari, the following has happened. She begged Kogi people to re-elect failed Yahaya Bello, She’s supporting the Social Media & Hate speech Bill. The cabal is so powerful, they can shut down anyone.
Another user, @ayeMojubar says the First Lady’s speech is laughable, “If China can control over 1.3bn people on social media, I see no reason why Nigeria cannot control only 180m people” – Aisha Buhari. Is it not a miracle to see that our First Lady cannot distinguish btw Unitary / One Party State and Democratic State with all our education”
@Obi_Nwosu stated “Dear Aisha Buhari, in china, if a government official is found guilty of corruption, he/she will be shot to death and the bullet is paid for by his/her family. How about we copy this from China, not just social media control”
Another user, @Elhay16 disclosed, “One minute Aisha Buhari is acting like she’s with the masses, the next minute she’s supporting the social media bill and playing solicitor for Yahaya Bello.”





			
			PV: 
			0