The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Edo State says the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), has no proper political structure in Edo state following the crisis that has almost crippled the party in the state.
The PDP stated this in reaction to the crisis rocking the APC in the state following the personality clash between the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole and the governor, Godwin Obaseki.
State chairman of PDP in Edo state, Dan Orbih, said that it is only in APC that the national chairman, the state chairman and the secretary, would be suspended in one day.
Orbih, who described APC as a disorganised party, wondered how it could rule the state and be expected to restore law and order.
He denied allegation that Governor Godwin Obaseki gave PDP the sum of N6 billion to enable him defect to the party.
He said: “Governor Obaseki has no business giving anybody money to join the PDP. If he has N6 billion to join PDP, I will advise him to spend that money to address the problems of the state.
“We don’t need any money from anybody to join our party. Our party is open to all those who are interested in joining us as member including Governor Obaseki. I know very well that the problems facing his government is that they don’t have a proper party structure. I see APC as a disorganised party in Edo State.
“We have heard that they have suspended the state chairman, Barrister Ojezua and another report said that the new chairman, Col David Imoise was not properly elected. The truth is that you cannot put the state in the hand of people who cannot manage themselves.”
Commenting on the alleged exit of Pastor Ize-Iyamu from the party, Orbih said as far as PDP is concerned in Edo State, it remains one indivisible family.
“I have with me here, party chairmen from all the 18 Local Government Areas in the state. No one has been suspended. The exit of anyone can not affect the fortune of PDP in Edo State.
“A few years ago when he (Ize-Iyamu) left APC, he said he was coming home. Now, we also read that he said he was going home when he was reported to have defected to APC. I’m saying that if he has decided to leave, he has not officially informed us that he is leaving for APC,” Orbih added.








			
			PV: 
			0