The rumpus over the power tussle between V.P Osinbjo and the Aso Rock cabal has escalated. Some top officials are engaging the arrowhead of the cabal in an argument over the authorization of the sack of many in the V.P office.
Reports are trending all over the internet that President Muhammadu Buhari;s CoS Abba Kyari was behind the sack, and his boss was not aware of it.
Osinbajo’s apparent rise in favourable public opinion is among the reasons the Aso Rock power brokers are after him.
The Emir of Daura, His Royal Highness, Alhaji Umar Faruk Umar had spoken so highly of Osinbajo at the installation ceremony of the President’s cousin, Musa Haro as the new Dan-Madamin of Daura last Saturday, the top aide to the President was present and was pissed.
“The Emir’s effusive praise of Osinbajo at the event on his loyalty to the president and commitment to project Nigeria was seen as a deliberate attempt by the Emir to smite the so-called head of Aso Villa cabal and rubbish all they have been doing to curtail and humiliate the VP in an attempt to orchestrate a tussle between the President and his Vice,” a source within Aso Rock said.
President Buhari, it was gathered, had already “personally approved the appointment of all the 35 aides reportedly disengaged, he had also instructed their deployment to other ministries as part of a reorganization of the presidency proposed to him by the same top aide, who is seen to be engaging Osinbajo in a power tussle.
“But by Monday, two days after the Emir of Daura praised the Vice President’s loyalty and service, the top aide, behind this whole problem ensured that all the aides deployed to the ministries should be disengaged.
“He, however, exempted those sent to the new ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development,” the source added.
The top government official, demanding explanation, was told it was the President who made the decision to relieve Osinbajo’s aides.
The could have confused many since it was the same President that approved all the presidential aides in the office of the Vice President before traveling.

			
			PV: 
			0