By Ediale Kingsley

Aptly themed “Hotter Than Fire”, this year’s Loveworld International Music and Arts Awards (LIMAA), went down in great style recently at the Loveworld Convocation Arena. It was so enjoyable that some viewers took to Twitter to call on The Headies to watch and learn how to put up a great show. Sunday, November 17, 2019, experienced an award event that many agree to be the best event of the year 2019. The organization and logistics were top-notch, the songs were hot and spiritually edifying, the environment was amazing as it was electrifying. And the cash prizes were mouth-watering.



Sinach who won the Song Of The Year award got $100,000. The artist of the year, Testimony Jaga, who couldn’t hold back his joy spoke in tears as he narrated his life tales on the street before he found salvation in Jesus Christ and comfort in the Loveworld home, got $25,000.

Testimony Jaga, Joe Praize, Loveworld UK band, Sinach, Samsong, Eben and many talented musicians gave awesome renditions and performances that will be talked about for weeks and years to come.

LIMA is a platform created by the President of The Loveworld Inc. aka Christ Embassy, Rev. Dr. Chris Oyakhilome Ph.D., in 2016 to recognize and reward music ministers produced by the church who are standing out in their ministry.

“We believe that if you give people opportunities to express themselves, they will excel and because we feel we have limited opportunities available to our artists to be celebrated outside as gospel music ministers, so we instituted the LIMA awards to recognize and honour our own” explained the Media Director of Loveworld Inc., Tony Ikeokwu.

Here is the list of the Winners:

Producer of the year — Frank Fytt

Best Male Vocalist — Eben

Best Female Vocalist — Pastor Ruthney

Hit Song Of The Year (protostar category) — Testimony Jaga (Gone For Life)

MUsic Band Of The Year – UK Band

Hit Song Of The Year (all stars category) — JoePraize (Joy Overflow)

Best New Act — Password (AMAGHIMO)

Music Video Of The Year — Samsong (E Dey Work Video)

Song Writer Of The Year (protostars) – Rita Soul

Song Writer Of The Year (all stars) ($50,000) — Ukband

Worship Song Of The Year — UKBand

Artist Of The Year – Testimony Jaga

Beat Rendition By An Artist — Onos (Overflow)

Music Collaboration of the Year — CSO & Jeanie (Higherlife)

Theme Song Of The Year — Pastor Saki (Light)

Grand Best Song Of The Year ($100,000) — Sinach

Other Best Songs Of 2019:

UKband (Shine)

Joepraise (Joy Overflow)

Ritasoul (Dance In The Holyghost)

Testimony (Gone For Life)

Ayovincent (Your Presence)

Eben ( Prince Of Peace)

Jeanine Sparkles

 (Pour Out Your Love)

Isreal Strong (Never Go Down)

Pastor Saki (light)

CSO (In Your Presence)

Phendi (Jesus Is Love)

CSO and Jeanine (Highlife)

Martin PK (Highest Praise)

Sinach (Overflow)

Ritasoul (Jesus)

The highly rated event enjoyed a robust broadcast schedule live on National and Cable Television Networks.










			
			PV: 
			0