Manchester United stars have backed their manager to remain the man for the Old Trafford job National Daily learnt
Solskjaer’s future has been brought into question again this week after Tottenham axed Mauricio Pochettino.
Speculation of Pochettino to replace Solskjaer heightens after Tottenham axed the former
The Argentine was linked with the United job last season after Jose Mourinho – who has replaced him at Spurs – was axed.
Solskjaer kept the job on a permanent basis but his side sit seventh in the Premier League, nine points off the top four.
Things have improved recently and they could end the weekend in fifth, if they win at high-flying Sheffield United on Sunday.
National Daily gathered that Rashford like his team mates wants his Norwegian boss to remain as United choice manager while admitting that Solskjaer played a key role in him signing his new contract in July, as he can see a clear plan for the club.
Rashford admits that Solskjaer contributed to his United contract renewal
For me, it was a no brainer. I could see where he wanted the club to be,” Rashford told Sky Sports.
“We were on the same page and both want the same things for the club.
“Ole is a great guy and a great manager and he has the club’s interests at heart.
“There is not a better man for the job, in my opinion.”
United have already secured their place in the knockout stages of the Europa League and also face a Carabao Cup quarter-final with Colchester before Christmas.
And the England international insists lifting silverware must be a priority for the club this season.
“If we came out of this season and got top four, without a trophy, I wouldn’t leave this season happy,” he added.
“If we managed to win a trophy and get top four it would be a successful season.
“For me, it is about putting markers down for what we can do in the future.
We know it won’t change overnight, and he won’t get what he wants from the players overnight, so we have to bide our time and be patient.
“As long as we keep working hard and believing in what we are doing, we will be fine.
“Manchester United always have to win trophies. It has been 18 months since our last trophy.”
 

			
			PV: 
			0