The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has not been known to be involved in intractable crisis in Edo State as in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).  However, PDP former governorship candidate in the 2016 election in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has negotiated and agreed with APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, to dump the PDP and join the APC. The negotiation and agreement, according to reports, is solely for the APC governorship ticket in strengthening the battle to stop Governor Godwin Obaseki from second tenure.
A report indicated that Pastor Ize-Iyamu has concluded anegotiations and plans with APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, to officially declare his defection from PDP to APC soon.
Pastor Ize-Iyamu was Secretary to the Edo State Government in the administration of former Governor Lucky Igbinedion.
He was part of the group that formed the Grace Group, which melted into the defunct Action Congress (AC).
Ize-Iyamu left the ACN in 2015 after ihe realised that Oshiomhole was going to deny him the governorship ticket of the party which was given to Obaseki.
There are insinuations that  Pastor Ize-Iyamu is joining  APC to secure the party’s governorship ticket with the support of the Edo Peoples Movement, a pressure group whose mandate is to unseat Governor  Godwin Obaseki.
It was disclosed that other party leaders contending the EPM support for APC ticket include General Charles Airhiavbere, Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi and Solomon Edebiri.
There are indications that Edo PDP is not likely to give Ize-Iyamu a second chance as the party’s candidate in 2020.
It said that the failure to replace the PDP State Chairman in Edo, Chief Dan Orbih, before the PDP governorship  primary election is part of the reasos Ize-Iyamu considers in dumping the party.
However, Ize-Iyamu is yet to make official statement on his reported defection from PDP to APC but his supporters are already celebrating his exit from PDP and alignment with Oshiomhole in APC.
There were indications  that some EPM members are not happy with the plot to support Ize-Iyamu for the APC governorship  ticket.
However, the Conveners of EPM, .Henry Idahagbon, was said to have declared “we are happy with his coming.”


			
			PV: 
			0