Unai Emery who has been under pressure to deliver results for the Gunners has insisted that his players are still behind him as he refused to go into detail about his future in his latest press conference ahead of their Europa League clash on Thursday National Daily learnt.
Unai Emery has remained under intense pressure after their recent 2 – 2 draw against Southampton in the EPL
The Gunners will battle Eintracht Frankfurt on Thursday night for their knockout stage spot. A win, or a draw if Standard Liege lose to Vitoria Guimaraes will however guarantee their success out of the group stage.  .
Anything other than a win will pile further pressure on Emery with Arsenal failing to win any of their last six matches – their worst run since 1998.
National Daily gathered that Arsenal are already sounding out potential replacements but Emery is not concerned.
My job is to prepare the match tomorrow, to look only at the match tomorrow.”
He also feels he still has the support of his players following a difficult few months.
“Yes of course. They show that,” he responded when asked if the players believe in him.
Emery was tasked with the job of taking Arsenal back to Champions League after taking over the reigns from Arsene Wenger.
Emery took over the reigns at Arsenal from Wenger
He could only secure Europa League football last term though and Arsenal already sit eight points adrift off fourth-placed Chelsea after 13 matches this term.
Emery has had to deal with a frustrated fan base, Mesut Ozil’s future at the club, and Granit Xhaka being stripped of the captaincy in a hectic few weeks.
But Emery refused to agree he was going through the most difficult spell of his managerial career.
“I am looking forward to playing tomorrow. The good moment, the bad moment the most important for me is to show my work.
“Our confidence depends a lot on how we can feel in our stadium with our supporters. Teams are coming here playing fearless.
“We need to be strong and together. We need to show our supporters our capacity and skills.”
 
 

			
			PV: 
			0