Tiger nuts, also known as chufa, yellow nutsedge or earth almonds, are not actually nuts, but rather edible tubers rich in a variety of nutrients and have been linked to several health benefits — ranging from better digestion to a reduced risk of heart disease.
The nuts are produced largely from northern Nigeria, and are shipped across the nation for sales on the streets.
6  health benefits of tiger nuts:

Rich in Nutrients

Tiger nuts contain a variety of nutrients and beneficial plant compounds.
Their specific nutrient content depends on the type. There are three main varieties of tiger nuts: black, brown and yellow.
On average, one ounce (28 grams) provides (1):
Calories: 103–121
Fiber: 2–7 grams
Carbs: 9 grams
Protein: 1 gram
Fat: 7–9 grams
Vitamin E: 278% of the daily value (DV)
Iron: 13–40% of the DV
Phosphorus: 9–11% of the DV
Vitamin C: 2–8% of the DV
Magnesium: 7% of the DV
Zinc: 5–7% of the DV
Potassium: 3–5% of the DV
Calcium: 1% of the DV
Tiger nuts are also a rich source of antioxidants, which are beneficial compounds that protect your body against aging and diseases like cancer and heart disease.
Research shows that germinating tiger nuts prior to eating them increases their antioxidant content.
That said, tiger nuts also contain antinutrients, such as phytates, oxalates, saponins and tannins, which can reduce nutrient absorption in your gut.
Germinating or roasting the tubers prior to eating reduces their antinutrient levels, making it easier for your body to absorb and use the many nutrients they contain.
 

Improve Digestion

Tiger nuts may promote a healthy digestion in various ways.
For starters, they are high in insoluble fiber, which passes through your gut without being digested. Insoluble fiber adds bulk to your stools and helps food move through your gut easily, reducing the likelihood of constipation.
Tiger nuts are also presumed to contain resistant starch, a type of fiber that can feed the friendly bacteria in your gut, helping your digestion run smoothly (7).
Moreover, tiger nuts may contain enzymes, such as catalases, lipases and amylases, which help break down foods in your gut, relieving gas, indigestion and diarrhea .
Keep in mind that the high fiber content of tiger nuts may initially cause unpleasant gas or bloating. Those interested in trying them should increase their portions gradually.
 

Reduce Blood Sugar Levels

Tiger nuts may help keep your blood sugar levels in check.
Animal studies show that tiger nut extract may help reduce blood sugar levels. This may, in large part, be due to the high fiber content of the tubers which may slow down the absorption of sugar in the gut.
Tiger nuts are also rich in the amino acid arginine, which may increase insulin production and sensitivity, both of which are important for blood sugar control.
Moreover, test-tube studies show that tiger nut extract may inhibit the action of carb-digesting enzymes in your gut.
As a result, less sugar may be absorbed from your gut in a way similar to the action of some blood-sugar-lowering diabetic medications. This is thought to potentially lower blood sugar levels, though more research in humans is needed.
 

Improve Heart Health

Tiger nuts may also be good for the health of your heart.
That’s partly because of the high amount of monounsaturated fats they contain, which give them a fat profile similar to that of heart-healthy olive oil .
Diets rich in monounsaturated fats are linked to lower levels of “bad” LDL cholesterol and higher levels of “good” HDL cholesterol. They are also associated with a lower risk of heart attack, stroke and death from heart disease.
What’s more, tiger nuts are rich in the amino acid arginine. Arginine can promote heart health because your body can use it to make nitric oxide, a compound that helps arteries and veins dilate, hence lowering blood pressure.
Research also links tiger nuts to better blood circulation and a lower likelihood of blood clots — both of which can reduce your risk of heart disease.
 
5. Boost Your Immune System and Help Fight Infections
Tiger nuts may contribute to a stronger immune system.
In one test-tube study, tiger nut extracts were tested against several types of bacteria that can infect humans. The extract was effective against E. coli, Staphylococcus and Salmonella bacteria .
Another cell study found similar results. The researchers added that tiger nut extracts might also be effective at fighting antibiotic-resistant bacterial infections.
However, more studies are needed before strong conclusions can be drawn.
 

Act as an Aphrodisiac

Tiger nuts have a history of being used to boost libido.
They’re used as aphrodisiacs in Ayurvedic medicine. In addition, men in Nigeria have used tiger nuts for generations to treat erectile dysfunction, increase sperm count and boost libido.
That said, few studies have investigated these supposed aphrodisiac properties.
One mouse study showed that tiger nuts helped preserve testicular weight and sperm production following heavy metal poisoning.
In a rat study, eating large amounts of tiger nuts for 30 days increased testosterone levels, boosted sexual activity and reduced intermission time between mating sessions.
However, there are no studies on using tiger nuts as an aphrodisiac in humans, so more research is needed before any conclusions can be made.
 
 
 

			
			PV: 
			0