Nigerians were held breathless yesterday  as Stephane Sessegnon sent a shiver with his 3rd minute early goal against the Super Eagles of Nigeria in their 2021 Africa Cup of Nations, AFCON, qualifier encounter on Wednesday. Sessegnon latched on a defensive error to give guest a 1 – 0 lead.
Stephane Sessegnon gave Nigerians an early scare with his 3rd minute early goa
A loss for the Eagles would have dealt them a big blow to their quest for their AFCON qualifiers thus “shutting their border” to the 2021 AFCON.
Meanwhile, the head coach of Benin Republic, Michel Dussuyer, has admitted that his side was only defeated by a superior opponent following their 2-1 defeat to Nigeria.
According to Dussuyer, Gernot Rohr’s side did not create many opportunities in the first half but gained more confidence in the second half after scoring a penalty.
National Daily gathered that the Super Eagles had to battle from a goal deficit after the Squirrels opened scoring at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, Uyo.
Victor Osimhen made it 1-1 from the penalty spot, shortly before half time when the referee adjudged a foul on Ola Aina in the penalty area.
Victor Osimhen restored parity with his goal from the spot
National Daily learnt that Nigerians were relieved when Samuel Kalu grabbed the winner, with a fine solo goa in the second half.
Samuel Kalu gave Nigerians a desirable relief with his solo effort winner
However, National Daily further gathered that Dussuyer in his post-match press conference praised his side performance despite their defeat to the Super Eagles.
“We played well in the first half, defended well, Nigeria did not create many opportunities but we conceded a penalty just before the half time which gave more confidence to Nigeria in the second half,”
“The second half was very hard for us and we wasted many balls, gave it to Nigeria so many times.
“In the end we tried to recover after conceding and we had an opportunity at the end (which hit the post) but it is logical; there’s a difference between Nigeria and Benin but we have fought for as much as we can.”
Meanwhile, some Nigerian fans reacted differently. While some were exceedingly satisfied with the outcome of the game, others were not very comfortable with slim victory especially when the Super Eagles had to come from a goal down.
Most Nigerians football lovers are now beginning to wonder their National sides have suddenly developed the ugly habit of always fighting back from deficit as experienced recently with U-17 and U-23 sides.
 

			
			PV: 
			0