Report reaching National Daily has it that Marcus Rashford has vowed that Manchester United will take the performance from their 3 – 0 win over Partizan Belgrade into the weekend’s clash at home to Brighton .
Marcus Rashford promises Man United fans that team will extend their form from 3 – 0 win against Partizan Belgrade
United qualified for the last-32 of the Europa League with a comfortable win over the Serbians at Old Trafford, where Rashford rounded off the scoring with the third goal.
First half strikes from Anthony Martial and Mason Greenwood – who was ted up by Rashford – gave United a 2-0 lead at half-time, before the England forward rounded things off with a third.
National Daily further learnt that Ole Gunnar Solskjaer claimed that United need to be used to such display as a “template” for their season going into Sunday’s Premier League match with Brighton, who currently sit above the Red Devils in the table.
Solksjaer wants Man United to maintain their display against Partizan Belgrade as their template going forward
After the match, Rashford tweeted: “Efficient from us tonight and need to take that into the weekend. Great to score again and to set the kid Mason Greenwood up too.”
The forward also poked fun at his goal celebration in a follow-up tweet, writing in upside down text.
When asked by reporters about Greenwood post-match, Rashford said: “He’s done very well.
“He just needs to keep knuckling down and working hard and the goals will come, because he has a lot of quality.
“We’re pleased to have qualified, but we really want to finish in top position and we have two more games to do it so we are in a good position.”
The forward was also critical of his own performance having missed a few chances in the first half.
“There were a couple of times where I was half a yard too forward, so it was a game of fine margins, but we’re happy with the three goals,” he added.
“For me, it’s about recognising it and trying to correct it in the next game, but I won’t let it stay on my mind for too long.”

			
			PV: 
			0