Real Madrid fans are celebrating the fact that Zinedine Zidane is reportedly maintained that the club’s priority should be signing Manchester United star Paul Pogba.
Zidane has not hidden his admiration for Pogba
Zidane and Pogba have made no secret of their respect for one another in the past but Los Blancos failed to prise him away from United last summer
However, the French boss is determined to finally land the midfielder either in January or the summer, even rejecting the chance to sign two other stars.
National Daily gathered that Spanish journalist Eduardo Inda says Real Madrid are focused on signing either Tottenham’s Christian Eriksen or Napoli’s Fabian Ruiz – with both possible in the winter window.
However, club president Florentino Perez’s offer to Zidane for the talented duo has been met with a fierce response from Zidane who rather preferred his compatriot Pogba.
Meanwhile, latest report reaching National Daily reveal that Paul Pogba has reportedly refused to play for Manchester United despite being fit in his bid to force January 2020 transfer move to Real Madrid.
Pogba has not played for the Red Devils since United 1- 1 draw against Arsenal in September
According to the Spanish press report, Pogba is only faking an injury to avoid playing for United to enable him force his way to Real Madrid.

However, after the claims were made in the Spanish press it was no surprise the French international took to social media to hit back at the reports.
Sharing clips on his Instagram account, Pogba can first be seen with his right ankle still in supportive strapping two weeks on from having his cast removed.
In the same video, the United midfielder can also be seen sporting an unimpressed look on his face, showing his frustration either at still being sidelined or the reports from Spain.
Later, another clip emerged of the Frenchman having his troublesome ankle worked on by a masseuse, suggesting he is doing all he can to get back out on the pitch as soon as possible.
The France international has not played for Manchester United since he got injured in the Premier League 1-1 draw against Arsenal in September. Pogba has been spotted playing basketball in America as he continues his rehabilitation.




			
			PV: 
			0