Gage Awards, a flagship online initiative is set to recognize and reward the very best of the digital world, including businesses, app & web developers, entertainers and many more.
The event, scheduled to hold February 22nd, 2020 at the prestigious Lagos Continental Hotel (former Intercontinental Hotel), promises a night of celebration filled with memories that would be captured by the web and shared all over the world.
According to the event convener, Johnson Anorh, Gage Awards is the first of its kind in Nigeria and is strategically positioned to be the most coveted prize for excellence in Africa’s digital ecosystem.
“The Gage Awards prides itself on an astute panel that comprises hard-workers and achievers in the industry. Having expressed their willingness to contribute to this history-making project, the experience of the jurors and their transmissible charisma would be brought to bear on the overall perception of the awards.
“The Gage jury includes John Ajayi, Nkemdilim Uwaje Begho, Tajudeen Adepetu, Obi Asika, Amaechi Okobi, Osayi Alile, Kunmi Demuren and Kamil Olufowobi. These are industry leaders in their various capacities who have mostly worked behind the scenes in creating businesses on the social and economic landscape in Nigeria,” he explained.
It was further highlighted that awards would be given in various categories of excellence on the night under 5 key areas which include entertainment, innovation, inspiration, information and business for the 2019 year in review.
The award categories are: social moment of the year, special moment of the year, online news platform of the year, web series of the year, online show of the year, content creator of the year, best data service provider, online person of the year, artiste of the year, entrepreneur of the year, content promoter of the year, best use of digital in financial service, online film/video of the year, banking app of the year, breakout app of the year, online campaign of the year, agency of the year, online comedian of the year, blog of the year, podcast of the year, agency of the year,  app of the year and best influencer endorsement.
Anorh also noted that the Gage Awards possessed a long-term potential to put Nigerian web players on the global stage, adding that it would accelerate the pace of innovation and growth in the digital ecosystem by recognising outstanding players in the country’s emerging digital industry.
“The premier digital ceremony is set to identify, highlight and reward activities online that help shape the pace of human development in Africa and especially Nigeria, in innovation, information, inspiration and entertainment.
“With the professional auditing process managed by one of the top 4 Global Management Companies, including PwC, a retinue of high caliber panel of Judges and a beautiful gala night, Gage Awards will become and remain one of the most prestigious awards in Nigeria,” he assured.




 





			
			PV: 
			0