An elder in Edo State, P. E. Madojemu Esq., on Tuesday berated Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu over his high frequency of jumping from one political party to the other, dumping one party for the other and returning to the dumped party at another instance, in disparate pursuit of power or personal political ambition while professing to be a Pastor of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG).
The Edo elder in a letter dated November 11, 2019, chided Pastor Ize-Iyamu for decamping from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC), and also aligning with the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomole, for the APC governorship ticket to unseat Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State in 2020.
The elder exposed the caustic attacks and venoms of dehumanization unleashed by Oshiomhole on Ize-Iyamu to cause him irreparable damages during the 2016 governorship election in Edo State. Ize-Iyamu defected from APC to the PDP to contest that election after he was denied the APC governorship ticket by Oshiomhole who anointed Governor Obaseki as his successor. Now, Oshiomhole is desperate to take the ticket away from Obaseki and Ize-Iyamu is desperately falling in to grab it even while many others have been promised of the APC ticket.
 “I will like to remind you of the incidence that occurred as a follow up to the 2016 Governorship Election in Edo State. How you were called names, your character maligned and your integrity dragged on the streets of Benin City like a thief going through jungle Justice in the hands of the people after being caught.
“I believe that you still remembered the man that shouted “ole” after your passage and pronouncements to participate in the governorship election of 2016 on the platform of the PDP. In case you have forgotten, his name is Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Then, he was the Governor of Edo State, but now, he is the National Chairman of the APC. His name has not changed. His antics have not changed. His character has not changed. His mouth is still filthy. His friends still have buses in motor parks. He still have a “brigade” of thugs in his Army,” Madojemu narrated.
the Edo elder admonished Ize-Iyamu not to be misled by whatever promise Oshiomhole may have made to him, cautioning the Pastor further that such promise may not the fulfilled. He warned Pastor Ize-Iyamu not to rely on his personal will, undermining God in making his decision to return to APC and re-unite with Oshiomhole after the disgrace and public opprobrium casted on him by the same Oshiomhole in the same party.

“Sir, I want to inform you that whatever you have been promised will never be given to you. It is said that the devil offers sinful pleasures but it comes with a price tag.
“Have you sought the face of the LORD to give you directions and pathway? As a Pastor of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, it will not be appropriate if you do not consult God — the God of Pastor Adeboye — to give you the right direction.
“Do not be like King Saul that banned the consultation of mediums and spirit in the land but turned around in disguise to consult the mediums. If it is the mediums that have consulted you and promised you the whole Earth, show them like Jesus Christ, the author of our faith, that they should “get thee behind you”. For whatever you bind here on Earth is also bound in heaven.
“The promise that was made to you to become the next Governor of Edo State, has been made to several other dissident actors both in EPM and other groups.
“It is the same promise that has been made to the “smallest” Samson from Orihionwon that is making him grant interviews left, right, centre to disparage the incumbent governor. It is the same promise that was made to a certain Osifo living in “Washington”, at the moment, to the neglect of his constituents. What about the former Commissioner for Justice and “Just” matters? He is no longer “fair” in his assessment of the road that leads to his house despite his romance with Osadebey Avenue for several years but has been promised the job of Osadebey himself.
“Sir, the list is endless. The promise is a ploy and trap. No allow the trap catch the hunter,” Madojemu declared.
The elder questioned the moral authority of Pastor Ize-Iyamu over his relationship with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State who sponsored the Pastor’s governorship electioneering campaign and election costs in 2016.
Madojemu maintained: “Sir, how would you go back to Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, the Governor of Delta State, to tell him of your decision — knowing that you are still in his debt book from the last election in 2016. What about Nyesom Wike? What about the numerous people that pledged unalloyed loyalty to you in belief of you.”
He further highlighted: “I have been unable to convince my wife — who stood under the sun for over six hours to ensure that her vote is casted for you and protected at all cost, that you have decamped to APC. She had earlier on in 2015 tried to convince me of your political instability. I can remember, she described you as a politician bitten by the bug of “sokugo“; the wandering disease.

“She said you were bitten by the bug sometime after you left office as the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) under the administration of Chief Lucky Nosakhare Igbinedion. She reminded me that you were one of the conveners of the infamous “Grace Group” and how you used the group to advance your cause and afterwards abandon them like a ship in a turbulent storm — without a captain.
“I convinced her that you have changed. That you have been healed of “sokugo” by betrayals from political friends and family. She believed me and followed my advice. Now, the news of your decampment and encampment is all over the state. She has heard it. I have avoided eye contact with her since morning.”
Madojemu also decried: “There were a lot of people who made enemies more than friends because they believed in your political ideology in 2016. I was one of such persons. I was warned that in politics, there is no permanent friend but permanent interest. I disregarded this advice. I cussed friends, family members and associates on account of the belief and trust I had in you. I cared less when I confronted people who disparaged your name and character in my presence. I fought for you like a family member. How am I to look at this people and tell them that you have, indeed, cross carpeted to APC?
“The people you called devil. The people you regretted associating with in the first place. The people who dug dirt about you and splashed it on front pages of national dailies with reckless abandon. Now, you are back to those strange bedfellows, donning their best underwear. You should have been naked rather than allow them cloth you.”
Madojemu, thereafter, vowed that Ize-Iyamu has lost at least one supporter in him, declaring, “but I will keep my PVC locked inside a box far from your name and belief. Like oil, your political leanings is unstable.”

			
			PV: 
			0