The Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly Rt. Hon.  Mudashiru Obasa has announced that the 8th Assembly will wind out officially with a special valedictory plenary secsion on Thursday,6th of June.
 
Obasa made the disclosure before affirming the adjournment date for the next plenary,he added that subject to confirmation, the inauguration of 9th Assembly  through executive proclamation  might hold on Friday.
 
“Let me announce to you that the valedictory service of the House will come up on Thursday and the inauguration may likely be on Friday subject to confirmation,” Obasa said, before he rose.
 
The House passed the reports of Lagos State Building Control Regulation 2018 and the Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Regulations 2018,presented by the Chairman, House Committee on Physical Planning and Urban Development, Hon.Setonji David .
Both reports after deliberations by the lawmakers was adopted as resolutions of the House.
 
The House also adopted the Harmonised Rules and Business Order of South-West Legislature.
 
The House equally debated the Lagos State Audit Amendment Bill, 2018 and also took a report of its Committee of Finance on the Lagos State Public Finance Management Amendment Bill 2016.
 
The House also received the report of its Committee on Housing on “A Bill for a Law to Regulate the Relationship of Parties Under Tenancy Agreement and Specify the Procedure for the Recovery of Premises in Lagos State and for Connected Purposes”.
 
The House took the report of its joint committees on Education and Judiciary, Human Rights, Public Petitions and LASIEC on the perennial crisis rocking the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), Ikorodu.
 
After debates on the joint committees’ recommendations, the House, decided to step the report down for another allotted date for further debate.
 
The lawmakers took turn to express dissatisfaction over the attitude of the union members and the excesses of the management of the institution.












			
			Post Views: 
			93