The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed A. Adamu, at the conference with Senior Police Officers on Monday held at the IGP Conference Hall, Force Headquarters, Abuja, stated that the new internal security approach adopted by the Nigeria Police has been yielding remarkable results in the past few months. The IG of Police revealed that over 424 kidnappers and 276 armed robbers were arrested in the months of May and June 2019 by ‘Operation Puff Adder’.
IG Adamu in his opening speech remarked that the Conference is convened in furtherance to his policy of constantly engaging strategic Police Commanders to undertake periodic review of internal security situation in the country. “This is with a view to proffering pragmatic and far-reaching solutions to crimes in the country. In this regard, the Conference will review the pattern and trend of crimes over the past one month, highlight our achievements, identify our challenges, geo-locate the current security threats and evaluate strategies with a view to strengthening our crime management template,” the IG highlighted.
The IG noted that while there are still isolated cases of internal security breaches which often attract publicity and national attention, the crime rate in recent times has been on the decline. “This is in contrast to the crime records over the preceding months,” he added.
IG Adamu said that the decline in crime rates is a result of the reforms introduced to enhance the institutional capacity of the Nigeria Police to respond to internal security threats and undertake intelligence-led operations. “The successes achieved are linked to ‘Operation Puff Adder’ which has been a very potent anti-crime vehicle of the Nigeria Police,” he said.
IG Adamu narrated that sequel to the launch of Operation Puff Adder in all the states of the Federation and other security strategies recently emplaced to address internal security threats, a total number of 424 kidnappers were arrested between 10th May, 2019, and 14th, June, 2019. He explained that the highest number of 101 kidnap suspects were arrested in Kaduna State, followed by Katsina State with 79 arrests; 54 suspects apprehended in Nasarawa State and 32 in Taraba State.
In the same vein, a total of 44 murder suspects were arrested during the period under review, with the highest number of Seven in FCT and Six in Kano State, the IG said.
IG Adamu further narrated that in addition, 276 armed robbery suspects were arrested within the same period with the highest number of 38 in Edo State, followed by 25 in Nasarawa State and 23 in FCT.
Similarly, a total of 10,860 ammunition of various descriptions and calibre were recovered while a total of 301 firearms, including a Rocket Launcher, AK47 assault rifles, pistols and locally made gun, were similarly recovered from criminal elements across the country, with the highest number of 80 in Katsina State, followed by Edo State with 26 and Kaduna State 25, the IG said.
He added that 176 suspected cultists were arrested across the country while 77 stolen vehicles were recovered by Operation Puff Adder operatives nationwide between 10th May, 2019 and 14th June, 2019, with the highest number of 29 in FCT.
The IG of Police emphasized that the achievements were recorded with the cooperation of members of the public in a manner that clearly demonstrates the increasing determination of the citizens to support the Police in restoring internal security. “It was also the result of the sacrifice, courage, zeal and exceptional dedication of Police Commanders and other ranks,” he said.
The IG of Police used the opportunity of the forum to immensely thank all well-meaning Nigerians for their support, commending them and other personnel of the Nigeria Police across all ranks for aligning to his policing vision and supporting the implementation of the strategies emplaced towards restoring internal security.
“We might have taken giant steps against crime and criminality but the battle is still far from being over. I, therefore, charge you to sustain the sense of commitment to duty as it represents a sacred call to national duty.

“I remain conscious of the challenges across all Commands/Formations and I can assure you that concerted efforts are being made with the support of Mr. President to tackle and bring far-reaching solutions to these challenges.

“I want to reassure the citizens that the Nigeria Police has emplaced frameworks that will facilitate the strengthening of operation Puff Adder and ensure the sustenance of its gains. This includes plans directed at re-organising and re-launching the Safer Highway and Safer City Models of Policing which will entail the acquisition of new fleet of vehicles that will be deployed to dominate the public space as well as the emplacement of CCTV and other cutting-edge technologies for city surveillance,” the IG declared.
IG Adamu said that the current attempts at adopting and implementing the concept of Community Policing also represents part of enduring strategies aimed at changing the policing narratives of the country. “This will ensure the effective integration of the citizens to our internal security framework, guarantee the concept of policing by public consent and build partnership required to address peculiar communal threats,” he noted.
 “In this regard, I want to charge all you all as strategic Police Commanders to redouble your efforts in ensuring the safety and protection of lives and property in your areas of jurisdiction while you provide the requisite leadership to officers and men under your supervision to desist from acts that widen the gap between the Police and the community as it is only when we present a common front that we can defeat the criminals that constitute our common enemies.
 “Finally, I wish to assure Nigerians of our firm commitment to sustain the war against crimes by taking the battle to the door steps of criminal elements in furtherance to our mission to guarantee the safety and security of our communities. We only request one thing which is the continued goodwill, understanding, and support of all citizens across socio-economic background,” the IG stated.








			
			Post Views: 
			138