This is not the good of times for the National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole as major stakeholders of the party are throwing jibes at him over unfolding political events in Edo state.
Oshiomhole’s predecessor in office, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, at the weekend backed governor of Edo state, Godwin Obaseki, accusing Oshiomhole of distracting the governor from governance with his meddling nature.
Recall that the governor had over the weekend accused Oshiomhole of displaying bias in the crisis rocking the Edo state House of Assembly.
Obaseki’s special adviser on media and communication strategy, Crusoe Osagie said Oshiomhole’s views on Obaseki’s alleged role in the emergence of the leadership of the Edo State House of Assembly exposed the APC chairman’s prejudice.
Reacting to the decision of the APC National Working Committee (NWC) on the crisis rocking the House of Assembly, Oyegun accused Oshiomhole of heightening the tension in Edo State with his activities against the governor.
ALSO READ: Oshiomhole, Obaseki face-off deepen
In a statement by his Special Assistant on Political Affairs, Ray Murphy, the former APC National Chairman said the governor should be allowed to concentrate on presiding over the affairs of the state.
The statement reads: ““Ask anybody from Edo State what is Obaseki’s biggest distraction and they will tell you that his distraction is not whether he has governed well or not, but from his immediate predecessor, Adams Oshiomhole.
“Today, there are all kinds of rancour coming from Edo State. They all boil down to attempt by godfather and godfatherism that is heating up the polity in the state. Obaseki is the executive governor of Edo State and he should be allowed to exercise the powers vested on him by the law. To what purpose is this idea of the APC chairman putting the state under tension?
“As a governor under the APC platform, he should be allowed to run out his tenure before they decide whether to bring him back or not. There are so much antics going on and you don’t need to be a prophet or Babalawo (diviner) to trace where they are coming from. They are coming from the APC.
“It is very unfortunate, especially considering the fact that he is the national chairman of the same party with the governor. I have not heard that PDP or Edo leaders want to remove Obaseki. What has been trending is how his predecessor who happens to be the party chairman does want him back in the office.
“If his actions against Obaseki are not anti-party, someone should then explain to me what is anti-party. The problem of the APC is from a singular man, the national chairman who runs the party like an executive chairman. The idea of working singlehanded and inducing the party members to endorse is the problem of the party.
“Look at what is happening in the party today. When was the last time the NEC meeting was held? But when these crises came to the fore, he has called several emergency NWC meetings.”

			
			Post Views: 
			98