By Chioma Obinagwam
The Chairman of SUNU Assurances, Mr. Kyari Abba Bukar has reinforced his commitment to raise the sum of $80 million in financial aid to support thousands of displaced people currently living in IDP Camps spread across Maiduguri state.
Mr. Bukar made this commitment while in the company of private sector actors under the aegis of the Nigerian Humanitarian Fund Private Sector Initiative (NHF-PSI), along with the United Nations, UN, during their second visit to Borno state on Tuesday to assess the condition of internally displaced persons (IDPs) as part of efforts to provide an indigenous support to them.
Mr. Bukar led the delegation of Nigerian entrepreneurs and Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) who paid a visit to the state’s IDP Camps this week on a second assessment tour of the facilities.
The delegation was in Maiduguri in May for the first visit, led by UN Country Director, Mr. Edward Kallon the co-chairmen of NHF-PSI, Mr. Kyari Bukar who is also a former chairperson Nigerian Economic Summit Group.
Speaking about his experience visiting the camps last May, Mr. Bukar said, “It is quite encouraging to see how Nigerian corporates are responding to what the United Nations is doing. It was a day trip but at the same time, it had touched their lives. As we were returning, many of them didn’t realise how dire the situation is over there. He expressed delight about the private sector in Nigeria’s enthusiasm in mobilizing resources and expertise to provide home-grown humanitarian assistance to the IDPs in the North East.”
Mr Bukar’s philanthropic activities have seen him play an active role in assisting the United Nations’ fundraising goals and encouraging Nigerian Corporates to contribute towards the United Nations Nigerian Humanitarian Fund.
“He said over USD83 million have been donated to the UN Nigerian Humanitarian Fund by 17 different countries. This has thrown a challenge to the private sector as they have set a target of raising USD80 million as Nigerians also to commit to various humanitarian causes. Sometimes it’s bringing the people in touch with how we can impact people’s lives”, he further noted.
On both occasion, the delegation visited NYSC IDP Camp where close to 7,371 IDPs are ‘sheltered’. They were also at Stadium IDPs Camp, where 10,673 were similarly camped. At the NYSC camp, the delegation interacted with local leaders of the displaced persons including women groups on their needs.
Alhaji Yaro Mustapha Aji, IDP chairman of Damboa Local Government Area said “we thank you for the visit and all the support you offer us.’ He enumerated among other things that they are facing challenges relating to livelihood, healthcare and shelter.
He explained that in a situation where the camp clinic cannot handle their health situation, they find it difficult to access health services outside because of the cost involved. Similarly, he said that ‘we do not have enough shelter and even for those who do have them that does not mean we have beddings, blankets and what have you. ‘We also have problem that has to do with water. Our boreholes are powered by solar and whenever there is rainfall, there would not be enough power to supply water for us,’’ the local leader explained.
Similarly, the women leader, Habiba Ibrahim also harped on condition of women in the camp. She said in Hausa language that “In situations of pregnancies, there are no adequate facilities for child delivery.” Habiba also told them that “due to the new arrivals to camp (as a result of new displacements last December), there are women and children sleeping outside as a result of inadequate shelter.”
The delegation also interacted with women and young girls in the IDPs who were victims of rape or other abuses as a result of the insurgency.
Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android

			
			Post Views: 
			68