The leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may have begun the introduction of primary election process that could frustrate incumbent Governor Yahaya Bello  from picking the party’s ticket for the November 2019 governorship election in Kogi State. While the APC is yet to adopt a consensus candidate, the party leaders are also yet to endorse Bello for a second term, or for automatic ticket for the November election in Kogi State.
 At a meeting in Abuja, the Kogi State All Progressives Congress stakeholders led by Senator Alex Kadiri said the direct primary process is the most viable democratic means to choose a worthy representative for the party in the election.
National Dailyinquiry revealed that 20 governorship aspirants are in the race for the APC ticket against Governor Yahaya Bello.
As several godfathers in APC continued to support their respective governorship aspirants,  Kogi State APC under the control of Governor Yahaya Bello is demanding indirect primary election for the selection of the party’s  candidate for the November governorship election.
ALSO READ: Kogi guber: No one can push me out of APC – Yahaya Bello
Other APC leaders sponsoring some other governorship aspirants are insisting on direct primary election which the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, from inception of office as the party’s said would be the electoral process for selecting governorship candidates in the party, henceforth.
Accordingly, Governor Bello has been thrown off balance in the build up to the APC primary election and the governorship election proper in Kogi State.
The governorship aspirants share the same decision on direct primary election with the APC national chairman. This was said to be troubling the Kogi State Governor who has been appealing to the APC national leaders to reason with him.
The 20 aspirants protest that Governor Bello cannot work with the resolution of the state executive whose legitimacy is being questioned in court.
Under direct primary election, there is no hiding place for any participant, no manipulation of the electoral process, and sometimes, threats, intimidation may apply. Indirect primary election  makes everything done in secrecy, including manipulation of the electoral process.








			
			Post Views: 
			120