The Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) on Friday challenged President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice, Yemi Osinbajo to make their assets public as an example for other public officials to follow.
According to a statement issued by the Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Diran Odeyemi, it was easy for Buhari, Osinbajo and others to continue to claim to be saints, and therefore challenged them to make open their assets in order to allow citizens “see better and judge accordingly” if they are corrupt or not.
The party was responding to the recent statement by the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) that it was not going to release details of assets of the President and other top officials without their consent.
The PDP argued that since the former Chief Justice of the Federation, Walter Onnoghen had to face prosecution over none declaration of some of his assets, then other public office holders should also present themselves for open scrutiny by openly declaring their assets.
“We are of the opinion that President Mohammadu Buhari, Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, President of the Senate Ahmed Lawan and Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila should declare openly their assets to allow Nigerians to further see how much wealth they have acquired since joining government.
“We believe laying claim to sainthood is easy as Buhari and others have been doing all along, but Nigerians deserve to see beyond whatever government forces down their throats. By making a public declaration of their assets, Nigerians will be able to see better and judge accordingly.
“By making public their assets, Nigerians will see how many heads of cattle in 2019 had been added to what Buhari had 2015. Blowing hot and cold at the same time is not the hallmark of a leader with clean hands,” the statement read.
Noting that should Buhari and others refuse to make their asset public, more questions will be asked over the sincerity of his government’s anti-graft posture, PDP added, “We urge Buhari and other top government officials to be more coordinated and exhibit transparency not only in fighting graft but in their dealings with Nigerians.”

			
			Post Views: 
			149