Kano Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has given fresh conditions Emir of Kano Muhammadu Sanusi II must meet before he can reconcile with the traditional ruler.
One, Emir Sanusi has been asked to tender a public apology to Ganduje and people of Kano for “dragging the revered image of the Kano emirate into the mockery waters of politics”.
“This will indeed, demonstrate his readiness to embrace peace and forgive, for the overall interest of Kano and good people of the state,” Mallam Muhammad Garba, former Commissioner for Information, said in a statement
Ganduje also wants Sanusi to withdraw all litigations challenging the Kano state government over the creation of the new Emirates.
Sanusi must also extend hands of fellowship to the new first class Emirs, including Emir of Rano, Bichi, Karaye and Gaya.
“When these are done, the reconciliation will not only become sweetest but very rewarding,” he said.
Garba further maintained that the Emir’s ordeals were a self-inflicted one and not a case of a witch hunt.
He added that the case of financial impropriety against Sanusi was instituted by some concerned group, which clearly vindicated the government.
“Recall that a group known as Concerned Friends of the Kano Emirate had petitioned the anti-graft agency alleging that a whopping sum of N3.4 billion was illegally expended at different transactions by the Kano Emirate Council with the express approval of the Emir.
“The Kano anti-graft agency has been on this very matter for about three years; and not until recently when it concluded the investigation and did the needful by forwarding the interim report to Kano state government. Suffice to say that the state anti-corruption body, which is independent, is acting based on the Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption Commission Law 2008 (as amended).
“And as far as the Commission is concerned, this investigation is ongoing and the Commission will do everything legally possible to deliver its mandate with respect to the case. Interestingly, Emir Sanusi, in compliance with the law, has replied the query issued to him by Kano State Government.
“He has stated his own side of the story and I believe relevant authorities are looking into it. In this line, I believe that it is in the interest of Emir Sanusi for the probe to be completed so that the sleeping dogs may lie,” Garba added.
Sanusi nearly lost his throne days ago but for the intervention of Ekiti Gov Kayode Fayemi and businessman Aliko Dangote who brokered a slender peace in Abuja.

			
			Post Views: 
			167