A 3-day old baby, Gift Chukwuebuka, stolen from a Plateau Specialist Hospital in Jos, Plateau state ten days ago has finally been reunited with her parent.

Recall that the baby, which was delivered on May 28, 2019, was stolen barely three days after she was delivered (May 31, 2019), by a woman who claimed to be a medical personal in the aforementioned hospital.

Presenting the child to the parents; the Chief Medical Director of the Hospital, Dr. Philemon Golwa, said, “Today is not a day of mourning, but a day of celebration; celebration of a life that was thought to have been lost, but now has been found.

Golwa said when the management was informed about missing of the child, “we were worried and we went to the police and had a meeting with them and they did their work and recovered the baby.”

The CMD said he was under pressure from different quotas to speak about the incident, but was very careful not to contradict himself; “But we thank God that today we have to celebrate.”

“Any baby that comes with circumstances like this, such baby turns out to be great in the society and that is why we need to tell the world what has happened.

According to the CMD, the police invited him and other staff on duty when the incident happened to the station, “some were even put behind the counter, we had to do all that we could do to bring them out.

“As God will have it, last Thursday, we had a big breakthrough, the baby was found and the person that did the technical work of snatching the baby from here to another hospital also had to confess, she admitted to her fault and we have left that one to the police.

“Why the police have not been able to say anything now is that they are working to demystify the mystery behind how the baby was taken from the ward finding to another hospital, so, I think they are still doing their work and I cannot stop them.

The CMD further explained that the incident occurred during the visiting hours of the Hospital (between 4-6pm).

Golwa assured that the management has taken more stringent security measures to ensure that such a thing never happens again.

He added that people coming to the Hospital must adhere to some procedures that may sound strange to them.

The CMD also said the Medical bills of the baby would be settled by the Hospital and they would be doing a follow-up, even if they are discharged.










			
			Post Views: 
			87