The All Progressives Congress (APC) has reacted to a trending report accusing its anointed candidate for speakership in the 9th House of Representatives, Honorable Femi Ghajabiamila of being convicted in the United States of America for fraud.

Recall that a civil rights movement under the aegis Coalition of Public Interest Lawyers and Advocates (COPA) on Thursday claimed that it was in possession of documents and evidences which established a clear case of fraudulent dishonesty and abuse of trust against gbajabiamila in the US.

The Convener of COPA and human rights activist, Pelumi Olajengbesi, said they have established correspondence with the Supreme Court of Georgia and have documents of Disciplinary Case No. S06Y0829 and the family of the victim of Gbajiamila’s fraud, Hadyatou Barry and also Vesta with P. O. Box 23410 Nashville TN, 31202, the insurance company that paid the claim misappropriated by Femi Gbajabiamila.

The organisation also faulted the refusal of Gbajabiamila to address allegation of imprisonment, perjury and stealing levelled against him through a proxy and former chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Appropriation, Abdulmumuni Jibrin.

The party in a statement by national publicity secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu urged Nigerians to ignore the phantom, infantile allegations and sponsored reports against Femi Gbajabiamila, the Party’s candidate for the Speakership position, 9th House of Representatives, that he was ‘convicted’ by a Court in the United States of America.
ALSO READ: Gbajabiamila denies being convicted for corruption
“The allegations have become a recurring fabrication. Nigerians will recall that the same baseless allegation were made against Gbajabiamila in the leadup to the 8th National Assembly speakership race and came to naught. It needs restating that Gbajabiamila has never been convicted for any crime in Nigeria and abroad.

“We urge Gbajabiamila and his vibrant campaign team to remain focused on their extensive countywide consultation and engagements which has been well-received and endorsed across party lines.

The party also commended Senator Danjuma Goje’s decision to withdraw from the 9th Senate Presidency contest in support of the Party’s endorsed candidate, Senator Ahmed Lawan.




“Ahead of the June 11 inauguration of the 9th National Assembly, we urge all APC federal lawmakers to rally around the candidatures of Senator Ahmad Lawan, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and all our candidates for the respective principal positions.”





			
			Post Views: 
			173