The Igbo Renaissance Forum (IRF) has accused the All Progressives Congress-led Federal Government of totally scheming the people of the Southeast from the governance structure of the country.
The group stated this in a statement it made available to newsmen on Wednesday by its International Coordinator, Nze Ugo-Akpe Onwuka.
According to the group, the outcome of the National Assembly event on Tuesday is complete prove to the people of South East that they are no longer needed in the running of the country as they are nowhere to be found either at the executive, judiciary or legislative arm of Nigerian Government.
“It has become very obvious to even a blind man that the Igbo is not wanted in the affairs of governance in Nigeria, and for those who have been very watchful as these schemes played out, we are neither surprised nor perturbed.
The group urges the Igbo nation to go back to their drawing board and get things fixed. “We are proud to be who we are! We do not stand with evil, and we are ready and willing to bear the consequences of such a noble stand.
ALSO READ: We have no excuse not to deliver now – Oshiomhole
“People have been slaughtered from every part of this country without one successful arrest and prosecution by those who claim to have been put into office to protect the citizens.
Nze Ugo-Akpe Onwuka said while the economy has gone into reverse mode with Nigeria being hailed as the poverty capital of the world, if not that of the universe, appointments have been made without recourse to common sense and good conscience.
“Unfortunately, in the face of all these humans are not bothered about the impending doom but are unified in the quest to muscle out a people that are not a threat to them, while embracing and entrenching those that have as their main goal the annihilation and annexation of their common patrimony.
“What a shame! As the NEXT LEVEL of impunity, unhindered massacres, unquestioned rape, arson and terror is enthroned, let me tell you for free that it is going to be a tough time, just like Buhari promised all of you who are dancing shoki for the supposed success of their mundane agenda.
“As we recoil to ask deep questions of ourselves, let it be known that Nigeria has descended finally into the abyss of tyranny.
“If you are still not alive to the current situation in Nigeria, please kindly scream for urgent help. And for those other regions that would be gloating over the lot of the Igbo nation in the country Nigeria, we are deeply sorry for all of you.

			
			Post Views: 
			113