Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Timi Frank, says what the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi 11 said about Nigeria being on the threshold of bankruptcy is true.
Recall that the former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) had said this during the ongoing 3rd National Treasury Workshop organized by the office of the Accountant General of the Federation holding in Coronation Hall, Government House, Kano.
The monarch lamented that for 30 years, successive governments have had this project called petroleum subsidy, insisting that this is the right time to stop it so as to save the nation’s economy.
Reacting, Frank commended the Emir of Kano for his timely warning, advising that Nigerians should not to be carried away by Buhari’s promise, during his inauguration, to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty, saying, “already, Buhari’s rudderless and overly corrupt administration has driven over a 100 million Nigerians into abject poverty and countless others to their early graves through suicide and banditry.”
According to Frank: “This is a Government that has failed to implement a new minimum wage for its workforce after Buhari hurriedly signed the minimum wage bill into law in April to save face on May Day. Buhari has breached the minimum wage act by refusing to implement it.
ALSO READ: Nigeria on threshold of bankruptcy, Sanusi warns
“This is a Government that has failed to operationalize financial autonomy for state judiciary and legislatures which Buhari signed into law in June 2018 following the last constitutional amendment exercise.
“This is a Government that has failed to name ministers and key aides to the President after over a month of being sworn into office.
“In many states of the federation, full workers’ salaries have not been paid for upwards of three years. Is it not benumbing that the newly inaugurated government in Ogun State had to secure a N7billion bank loan to pay May salaries?”
The former APC spokesperson stated that” having failed in the last four years to meet the aspirations of Nigerians for humane, purposeful and progressive governance, the present administration has resorted to churning out lies in order to keep Nigerians in perpetual bondage.”
He called on international development partners to prevail on Buhari to be more responsive to the genuine needs of the people in order to save Nigerians from the current state of avoidable and unnecessary hardship in the land.

			
			Post Views: 
			81