Former Governor of Oyo State, Senator Rasidi Ladoja, on Tuesday called on the governors in the southwest to come together and unite to fight security challenges bedeviling the region.





The ex-governor was speaking against the backdrop of killings and kidnapping, which have found their ways into the southwest corridors in the recent past.

Ladoja, while addressing journalists at his Ondo Street, Ibadan residence, urged the governors in the region to put their party affiliations at their backs and unite to tackle the security challenges the region is currently facing.

He said, “I believe the governors in the southwest should come together to tackle the security bridge in the region after all they, are governors for everybody notwithstanding their political differences.

“The governors should call themselves to tackle the security challenges in the region. I don’t think there is anything that is bad in it if they call themselves and discuss the way forward.
ALSO READ: Sanwo-Olu signs N873bn 2019 budget into law
“They should not say you are in party A and you are in party B. They should come together to tackle the security challenges in the region.”

On local government dissolution, the High Chief of Ibadanland said the system that brought the council chairmen into office was marred with irregularities and therefore the governor was right to show them the way out of the office.

The Osi Olubadan of Ibadanland said, “The council chairmen knew they were in office illegally. Or why did they rush to court if they are sure of the legality of their being in office?”

The Muslim Students’ Society of Nigeria (MSSN) National President (Amir), Dr. Taofeek Yekeen, while speaking described the alleged Islamization of Nigeria as mischievous.



Yekeen, who addressed journalists shortly after he observed the two-Rakah compulsory Eld-Fitri prayer at the University of Ibadan, added that the federal government should task the security chiefs so that they can perform better, rather than sacking them.

He said, “That is not true because, we are all here when former President Goodluck Jonathan approached OIC for some faculties, Mrs. Ngozi Okonjo Iweala also defended that move, that it is cheaper relating with those people because it is interest free.

“So, why are we talking about Islamization now? It is obviously mischievous. We have security challenges; no doubt, we will only appeal to the Federal government to step up their activities to curb all these challenges,” he said.










			
			Post Views: 
			64