The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed A. Adamu, has expended the security architecture of the Nigeria Police to protect railway stations, operational facilities and passengers across Nigeria. The Inspector General of Police, accordingly, deployed a new batch of the k9 component of Operation Puff Adder to Nigeria railway stations across the country on Tuesday.
IG Adamau in a statement sent to National Daily on the commissioning of the K9 at the Force Headquarters, Abuja, expressed deep sense of professional commitment in addressing the officers during the formal deployment of the K9 assets of the Nigeria Police to all railway stations across the country. The IGP explained that the initiative is within the context of Operation Puff Adder, adding that it is planned to complement the existing security measures emplaced for the security and safety of passengers and critical infrastructure of the Nigeria Railway Corporation across Nigeria.
The highlighted that the deployment of special breed and exceptionally-trained police dogs for security duties is as old as human civilization, saying that their utilization in combating crimes and sundry internal security threats in the 21st century cannot be over emphasized.
He maintained that K9 are, indeed, known to possess extra-ordinary capacity for detection of Improvised Explosives Devices (IEDs), narcotics and other illicit drugs, firearms and other prohibited items which criminals usually engage for the perfection of their criminal activities. “The deployment of Police dogs is, therefore, meant for detection or prevention of crimes along the railway corridors. Their brief shall be for patrols, surveillance, detection and apprehension of felons in and around railway facilities,: the IG declared.
IG Adamu acknowledged that the Nigeria Police prides itself as having one of the most equipped, experienced, highly-trained, and functional K9 Section. “They also have commendable antecedent of successful anti-crime, crowd control and civil disorder management operations in the country. Indeed, it is on record that the Nigeria Police Force Animal Branch has been instrumental to the training and development of similar branches for other security agencies in the country,” he said.
The Police boss further said that the plan is to maximize the unique K9 strength to complement other sections that have been deployed as part of the broad policing architecture which we recently emplaced towards addressing our internal security challenges.
“It will be recalled that prior to this time, about 1,000 additional police personnel were deployed to the Nigeria Police railway Command. This unprecedented deployment was designed to address the manpower gap of the Command and reposition them to address vulnerabilities, projected threats, and security challenges which the increasing human traffic and expanding assets of the Nigeria Railway Corporation may present, the IG highlighted.
He stated: “Just this morning, I watched the ‘Sunrise Daily’ Programme of Channels Television which focused on security of railway passengers and I was delighted to hear most of those interviewed confirming that indeed police security deployment has been significantly enhanced both around the railway facilities and in-coach. With today’s initiative, passengers, staff, and indeed, all the citizens of this country can further be re-assured of their security as they patronize the services of the Nigerian Railway Corporation.”
The Police boss assured that all the assets of the Police shall continually be mobilized and deployed towards denying criminal elements of any space to operate in any location in the country. “We however, continually solicit the cooperation of all. We encourage all citizens to embrace the concept of ‘if you see something, say something’. Indeed, our appeal now is ‘if you suspect something, say something’. This is a civil obligation of all citizens and this is the most potent weapon towards collectively winning the war against elements bent on threatening our security,” he appealed.
IG Adamu commended the officers and men of the K9 Section of the Nigeria Police for their resolve and commitment in ensuring that the maximum capabilities of the dogs are harnessed for the safety of our country. “Always be assured that your welfare and that of your dogs will always be of priority to myself and the entire management team as you join this operation today. As you have always been, I expect you to be of good conduct and operate within strict professional ethics as you proceed to the respective Railways stations across the country in service of your Fatherland,” he said.
The IG further commended all police personnel currently on the Operation Puff Adder duty for their sacrifice, loyalty, dedication to duty and professionalism which, he said, have so far aided the Operation in achieving its goals of stabilizing the internal security order. “I am very proud of your achievements. I, however, charge you all to sustain the tempo, noting that crime is a dynamic occurrence and even though we have recorded tremendous successes, we cannot afford to lower our guards. I pray that Allah (SWT) continues to protect you all as you commit to the sacred duty of securing the citizens of our beloved nation,” IG Adamu declared.

			
			Post Views: 
			151