A former Nigerian youth international and alumnus of Insurance of Benin and Rangers International ,Uche Okagbue, Manager of FC IfeanyiUbah saw his lads lose a third game despite spirited efforts at making a mark in the NPFL Championship Playoff,he told Esther Egbe National Daily during an interview chat that his team will fight till the end of Super 6.


What is your  view about your game with Kano Pillars ?

My lads tried fighting back top reverse a first half two goals lead against Kano Pillars ,but only succeeded in getting in just one goal and it was their third loss in as many games in the five-match Championship Playoff.

Going into the fourth game against seven-time champions, Enyimba International and Rangers FC?

My message  for Enyimba International and Rangers International, their remaining opponents in the tournament which is and all Oriental Derby, warning that, “It is not going to be easy. We will fight for prestige and we will not be a pushover for any team despite not being in contention for the title or season’s ticket”
We are ready for them. My boys are capable. I believe in themselves. We are ready to fight to the end.

Did you ever think your team was going to be among the Super6?

FC IfeanyiUbah really were never reckoned to finish among the playoff sides after the club in a pre-season reorganisation released most of their top stars and assembled a bunch of young and relatively unknown players with a coach that was not associated with any previous success. Yet, they led their group from the early stages and after some setbacks, finished in the top three of the group to make the playoff.

ALSO READ:NPFL to observe 60 seconds silence, wear black armband on MatchDay 22

You have lost three games;two more to go. What should we expect from you?

I must say that we got here on merit because we competed with boys who were inexperienced and never were given a chance to qualify. I also believe the other teams are here on merit, so, you cannot look down on any of the teams. Unfortunately, we have not been lucky in front of goals compared with the chances we created but with two games to go, we have to fight for respect and ensure we did not leave the tournament without winning a match or earning a point.

What do you think about our officiating in NPFL?

I have my reservations about officiating and was particularly bitter with the penalty that gave Kano Pillars their first goal in the 2-1 win and believes the error of judgement on the part of the match officials affected his players.In our time, we played football on merit and were selected from the league clubs to represent the country. Today, our age grade teams are having issues because most of them didn’t get invited based on merit.

FC IfeanyiUbah has enjoyed positive reviews from fans and the media for the quality of their game which though has been marred by a lack of good touch on the final third. Some analysts believe the lack of experienced strikers in the front line has been their bane.We have inexperienced players that is any cause of our defeats.

Can you say you are proud of your players?


I am happy with how far we have come to this tournament. We are playing with young boys who were assembled at the end of last season when all the big players left and it is commendable how thy have adjusted and become a team that finished well. Our major problem here has been the boys’ experience and if we can get to this stage next season, they should watch out for us.

			
			Post Views: 
			66