Hon Femi Gbajabiamila and Umaru Bago accepted their nominations to contest the Speakership position of the 9th House with one of the contenders, Olajide Olatubosun, not nominated.
It was not clear as at the time of compiling this report whether he stepped for either of the eventual aspirants.
Clerk to the National Assembly (CNA) Mohammed Sani-Omolori entered the chamber at 2.34pm and after greeting former Speaker Dogara made straight to his seat to begin the business of the day.
The CNA banged the gavel at 2.37pm and announced that he received the Proclamation from Mr President, in exercise of the power conferred on him proclaimed the commencement of the 9th National Assembly.
ALSO READ:Tinubu, APC leaders make fresh moves to nuetralise PDP plot against Lawan, Gbajabiamila
He invited the Clerk of the House of Representatives to take the role call.
Two members were absent, one of them from Benue due to electoral issues.
CNA read the rules of nomination after which Abdulmumin Jibrin nominated Gbajabiamila.
More than three quarter of the floor gave a standing ovation for the nomination while almost everyone raised their hands to second the motion, which Linda Ikpeazu eventually did.
Gbajabiamila accepted nomination with another round of applause saying, “I stand on the nomination of Hon Jibrin, I have nothing else to add”.
Abubakar Yunusa Ahmad (Gombe) (booed), who read a prepared text nominated Bago, which Mark Gbilah (Benue) seconded.
Bago accepted the nomination.
The CNA announced the voting process but silent on the adopted system.
Voting at two points according to States commenced at 3.44pm
When it was discovered that phones were used by voters to take pictures of votes, the CNA said while it is allowed for voters to do whatever they wanted with their phones while voting, no one should attempt to tramp on other members privacy.
Saying that enabling environment has been provided for a hitch-free exercise, the CNA added, “We will not tolerate any member impinging on the privacy of another member”.






			
			Post Views: 
			116