Bosede Oguntade, a 25 year old house wife was recently strangulated to death by a prophet, Dotun Ogunlade popularly called ‘Arole Jesu’ in Igboora area of Oyo State.
Bosede who hailed from Ilorin in Kwara State was said to have been lured to Igboora in Oyo State in search of solution to her economic and marital problems by Prophet Dotun Ogunlade.
The Commissioner of Police in Oyo State, Shina Olukolu who alongside his team bursted the hide out of the murder suspect and discovered where Bosede was buried without head and hands gave account of how the victim was killed saying on the arrival of the woman to Igboora, the fake prophet told her to first take care of her fatigue occasioned by the stress of her journey from Ilorin by taking sleeping pills.
He went on, the woman was allegedly injected with overdose sleeping drug and subsequently over powered and strangulated to death. Her head and hands were cut off and taken for rituals while the remaining body was buried in a shallow grave, at Ogboja Area of Igbo-Ora, the Police Commissioner added.
Olukolu said based on credible information and diligent investigation, the police in Igbo-Ora were able to smash and arrest the syndicate.
Olukolu solicited for collaboration with the Police by the public at giving timely and useful information on crimes and rituals to enable them serve the community better. He also warned the public saying, “The public should be carefull in having absolute trust in individuals or groups who are strangers, especially those they met on social media or those who claimed to posses the power of clairvoyance or ability to combat and treat successfully terminal diseases or possessed solutions to social and marital challenges.”
Speaking to journalists the suspect said he gained church experience from his former boss who happened to be a prophet of Cherubim and Seraphim.
He said, “The woman and I have been chatting on Facebook since January this year. I later invited her to Igboora.
“Already Mutiu, a friend had told me about his challenges in life. He told me he was ready for money rituals. So, I decided to use the woman for money to help him.
“When the woman later arrived from Ilorin, I went to picked her to Igbo-Ora, from Iseyin. On her arrival at my house on 31st May this year, I gave her sleeping drugs after she complained about pains in her body, she slept off and I cut off her head, and hands. Her head was later burnt to ashes for money rituals.”

			
			Post Views: 
			2,463