Barcelona, unable to meet Paris Saint-Germain’s transfer fee demands, will now resort to a last-ditch attempt to land former superstar Neymar.
Barcelona need to have a productive transfer window if they are going to do well next season. Frenkie de Jong’s arrival has already strengthened their engine room, but the attack is what requires the biggest reinforcements. Luis Suarez had a poor season by his standards while Philippe Coutinho and Ousmane Dembele would refuse to step up onto the plate, leaving Lionel Messi to bail the team every time it was in vexation.
Antoine Griezmann and Neymar are the two players who have strongly been linked to the club lately, as per Fox Sports. Barcelona would probably afford both of them if they were to get rid of Philippe Coutinho, but Lionel Messi’s preference of playing with Luis Suarez in the final third means that Griezmann or Neymar would have to play on the left wing. The latter fits the bill perfectly, while the former is not wanted really by Messi.
The Catalans are now planning a masterstroke to sign Neymar from Paris Saint-Germain, whose demands are cumbersome from Barcelona’s standpoint. The French giants have valued Neymar at around 200 million euros, a price which the Spaniards certainly cannot pay right now after the way in which they have spent over the last few transfer windows. Hence, Josep Maria Bartomeu has an idea to plot Neymar’s return.
Los Rojiblancos have surrendered to the fact that Antoine Griezmann would not be on their books from the next campaign, and so they will sell him to anyone who pays his release clause of 120 million euros. Their Spanish counterparts based out of Catalonia are considered frontrunners to do so. However, according to the Barcelona’s latest plan, they don’t plan to keep hold of the France international for long.
Paris Saint-Germain will be offered a deal that will see Griezmann go to the Parc de Princes along with 50 million euros, in exchange of Neymar. The Qatari-owned club will be ready to pay 25 million euros to Antoine Griezmann, and through this way, they would effectively have cashed in on Griezmann’s two year salary. Also, their wage bill will significantly reduce as Neymar charges close to 37 million euros annu

			
			Post Views: 
			278