A team of medical experts at the Multi-system Afe Babalola University Teaching Hospital (ABUTH), Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, in collaboration with some foreign partners made major success in conducting open heart surgery in Nigeria at the weekend.

National Daily learned that the team of experts led by Professors Tayo Adeleke and Paul Davies, US-based Cardiologists, during a review of the landmark and successful cardiovascular surgical operations at the University campus, explained that they were able to record successes in all the patients operated upon due to the expertise and hard work of the medical personnel in ABUTH and good equipment in the hospital.

The team leader, Professor Adeleke, advised Nigerians to conduct a routine check on their blood pressure, which has been identified as the chief cause of heart failure globally. Adeleke, disclosed that the experts from the US have successfully performed over 10,000 open heart surgeries for a period spanning 21 years.
He declared: “High blood pressure is a silent killer. It’s the major cause of kidney failure, heart failure and sudden death among our population.
“The life expectancy in Cuba is 81, that of USA is 80, so for Nigeria, which life expectancy is about 55, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the focus must be on the health sector.
“Good equipment and personnel must be provided in our hospitals, the way Chief Afe Babalola has done in ABUTH.
ALSO READ: Study reveals future of Lagos city in 2100
“You can get quality health delivery here in ABUTH with what we have seen. With this hospital, I don’t think there is a need for medical tourism again in Nigeria.”
The founder of the University, Chief Afe Babalola (SAN), described the breakthrough at the 400-bed hospital complex, located within the University premises, as a celebration of a memorable success in the medical history of the country.
Babalola also stated that Nigerian Doctors and other professionals are as brilliant as their counterparts overseas, but were being under utilised by the level of decadence in the system caused by the paucity of equipment.








			
			Post Views: 
			73