The All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South south region has announced that the national leadership of the party has ceded the position of deputy Senate president to it. The Nation reports that the zonal APC based on this development endorsed Senator Ovie Omo-Agege as its candidate for the position on Saturday.

Ndume Hilliard Eta who is the chairman of the party in the region and David Okumagba who is the secretary noted that Omo-Agege was qualified for the position.

 They said: “The Zonal Working Committee acting on behalf of the Zonal Executive Committee, Elders and Leaders of the South-South geopolitical zone of our great Party, the All Progressives Congress, (APC) wishes to state categorically that we align ourselves with the decision of the national leadership of our great party in respect of the zoning of the Principal offices of the 9th National Assembly.

“We commend our respected leader, President Muhammadu Buhari for his sterling leadership of the affairs of our great country and our illustrious son, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole for his sound administrative experience in piloting the affairs of our great Party. “The leadership of the South-South Zone is fully in support of Mr. President. Our zone has been given the opportunity by our great Party to produce the Deputy Senate President for the 9th National Assembly and we are thankful.

ALSO READ: Emir Sanusi abandons Kwakwanso to secure his throne

“It is important to state that our two illustrious sons, Distinguished Senators Francis Alimikhena from Edo State and Ovie Omo-Agege from Delta State had indicated interest to contest for the office of the Deputy Senate President. Both of them are eminently qualified for that office as both are ranking Senators. “However, considering the current zoning of political offices in our zone whereby Edo State produced the current National Chairman of our great Party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and other considerations, it became imperative that our zone supports the candidature of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege for the office of the Deputy Senate President. “The South South geo political zone had demonstrated uncommon faith, courage and vigour in the just concluded general elections by voting massively for candidates of our great Party at all levels. We implore all Distinguished Senators to please stand by us and support Senator Ovie Omo Agege for the position of Deputy Senate President.”



Meanwhile, Dino Melaye, the senator representing Kogi West, said on Thursday, June 6, mentioned two unforgettable days in his life in the National Assembly, the first being when he cried following the invasion of the upper chamber. That invasion led to the hijacking of the mace, the symbol of authority of the legislature, by some alleged hoodlums.







			
			Post Views: 
			79