Deputy Chairman ignores Chairman’s disciplinary panel





The National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, and the Deputy National Chairman (North), Lawal Shuaibu, USA have declared total war in the party.
APC National Working Committee (NWC) led by Oshiomhole had set up disciplinary committee to conduct investigation into the letter written by the Deputy National Chairman, North, demanding immediate resignation of Oshiomhole over his poor leadership of the party in the 2019 general elections which made the ruling party encounter losses in several states.
APC National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu, in a statement explained that the decision to conduct investigation on the letter from Shuaibu was taken at the 38th regular NWC meeting in Abuja.
The National Publicity Secretary emphasized that the committee headed by Adebayo, would investigate Shuaibu for allegedly instigating some members of the party in the National Assembly against the party’s decision on the choice of the next leaders of the federal parliament, adding that the party, therefore, summoned Shuaibu.
National Daily learnt that the Deputy National Chairman, Northern, had in a letter dated June 7, addressed to the Deputy National Chairman (South), Niyi Adebayo, head of the panel, indicated that he will not appear before the disciplinary panel.
National Daily also learned that Shuaibu has his strong reasons. In earlier consideration of Shuaibu’s letter, the National Working Committee (NWC) had passed a vote of confidence on Oshiomhole before setting up a five-member disciplinary committee to investigate Shuaibu. It is, accordingly, clear that the investigation panel is working for Oshiomhole and not to restore discipline in the party. The panel is apparently one of the battalions in Oshiomhole’s arsenal to fight Shuaibu.
Thus, Shuaibu in his letter, acknowledged receipt of the letter inviting him to the panel but questioned where the NWC derived the power of discipline, making reference to Article 21 of APC constitution which states that such power shall only be exercised by the party through the respective executive committee of the party at all levels.
ALSO READ: Oshiomhole’s fireworks generate tension over election of NASS leadership
Shuaibu argued that the invitation of the committee was illegal; he, therefore, declared that he will not appear before the committee.
“Let me state that with due respect to the National Working Committee, an important organ of my Party, I will not appear before your committee as it is illegal and I am too informed to get involved in illegalities.
“Given the NWC has the power, how can the Chairman preside over a meeting in which discussions that border on allegations against him are discussed? Let me repeat again as in my letter to the Chairman, YOU CAN’T BE A JUDGE IN YOUR OWN CASE!
“And to even say he was seated there to accept a vote of confidence as well as preside over setting up a committee to punish the member that accused him!
“I can equally imagine how the NWC, an important organ of the Party could convene what was described as a regular meeting for which less than 24 hours’ notice was given, specifically to discuss my opinion on the chairman and even issue a communique in that regard. You are actually making me appear to be more important than I have always felt.
“I am not sure of the source of your meeting with respect to the other shocking allegations contained in your resolutions, but what I read from it in virtually all the Newspapers this morning painted me darker than I am.
“That I was inciting National Assembly members against the nominees of Mr. President is to say the least, that your meeting ran out of creative ideas on how to give a dog a bad name in order to hang it.
“They are weighty allegations, but I don’t get intimidated and for those who know me, I have never in my life, played any double standard and they can tell you that I don‘t tell lies for any favours, because I depend on God for all my needs and every other favour.
“If you want to punish me for saying what I still believe is true, then you have to take this matter to where you are avoiding, the National Executive Committee. My advice is, please, let us save this party, as a stitch in time saves nine,” Shuaibu declared.
 








			
			Post Views: 
			214