The Majority Leader of the House of Representatives and contender for the Speaker of the House in the Ninth National Assembly, Femi Gbajabiamila, on Wednesday, denied ever being convicted on any corruption case.
The Director-General of the Gbajabiamila/Wase Campaign, Abdulmumin Jibrin, at a world press conference at the Transcorp Hilton, Abuja, on Wednesday, made the clarification that contrary to claims and reports making the rounds, Femi Gbajabiamila has not been accused nor convicted of any corruption case.
Jibrin said that the accusations against Gbajabiamila are fabrications aimed at tarnishing his image.
“In the last few weeks, the media has been washed by a reoccurring fabrication of false accusations and outright lies against Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila.
“The latest was a live press conference addressed yesterday by someone claiming to be speaking on behalf of the Coalition of United Political Party (CUPP).
“For the benefit of the doubt, we wish to state once again that Hon Gbajabiamila has never been convicted for any crime in the USA, Nigeria or any other country around the world for that matter.
“He has never been accused of corruption and has no case hanging on his neck in Nigeria or anywhere around the world; he has never been accused, committed perjury in Nigeria or any country of the world.
“He was eligible to contest in all previous elections he won and, indeed, eligible to contest for the office of Speaker of the House of Representatives of the Ninth Assembly.
“Honourable Femi has severally responded to these allegations, provided clarifications and set records straight.
“The allegations have also been tested and struck out in courts of law in Nigeria, the state bar of Georgia has also written and categorically stated that there is no criminal conviction in the matter relating to Hon Femi Gbajabiamila and he is currently an active member in good standing of the state bar of Georgia.
All these facts are in the public domain.
ALSO READ: Femi Gbajabiamila gets Orji Kalu’s endorsement for Speaker
“Hon Femi has not been served any summon by an area court neither has he been notified by the clerk of the national assembly. We are worried that those behind these antics are trying to drag the judiciary and our judges to what is clearly a hatchet job.
“We urge the general public to disregard the falsehood being peddled around.
“Hon Femi has instructed his lawyers to take every necessary legal step against all those involved and the parliamentary conspirators and sponsors to seek redress and sue for defamation with immediate effect,” Jibrin declared.
 
 








			
			Post Views: 
			142