Tells successor to face governance





Former Governor Rochas Okorcha on Monday hit back at Governor Emeka Ihedioha over the claim that his predecessor did not handover anything to him. Okorocha noted that while addressing Heads of Government Parastatals in Imo State, Ihedioha had given directive to the Permanent Secretary, Government House, Arch Emeka Duru, to do proper handover within 24 hours.
Sam Onwuemeodo, Special Adviser on Media to the former Governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, had in a statement on Monday protested: “We do not think that the new governor came to power only to vilify Okorocha. “Since May 29, 2019 when he was inaugurated, he has never said any other thing aside talking down on the former governor.
“First, he went to demolish the Akachi Tower, Imo people shouted foul. He said Okorocha had been arrested by EFCC, which was also false. He renamed the Imo Trade and Investment Centre, Ahiajioku Centre…”
They Media Aide of the former governor also remarked that the brand new Government House Okorocha handed over to Ihedioha was an eyesore with a photograph of a bad toilet they must have taken from the PDP Office in Owerri. The Aide further noted that the new governor also denied that the former governor left N42.5 billion for him; adding that yet, the banks mentioned to be holding the deposits have not denied being in custody of the mentioned sums.
“Today, it is the issue of handover. There was a Joint Inauguration Committee with his Secretary to the State Government now, Chief Chris Okewulonu, as Co-chairman.
“They were handed over both assets and liabilities and taken round the key projects. They were satisfied. And the Principal Secretary to the former governor has also been there. He received the governor in Government House, took him round and also handed over to him any other thing left to be handed over.
“Even before May 29, 2019, when he was sworn-in as governor, he had made up his mind to invest heavily on blackmail against his predecessor.
“For instance, with the inauguration time-table, he was to meet with the governor, then, Owelle Okorocha, on May 2, 2019, but he called to say that he was travelling. He skipped that important meeting.”
“Again, May 5, 2019 was slated for his tour of selected projects with the governor, then, but he also avoided that. “May 6 to May 20, 2019 was scheduled for Ministerial handover and Account reconciliation but he was never seen.
ALSO READ: Unpaid loans: Outgoing lawmakers under pressure by banks
“He avoided close contact with the man he was coming to replace. Even the Joint Inauguration Church Service fixed for May 25, 2019 at Heroes Square; he altered the whole programme to avoid being on the same page with Owelle Okorocha for a smooth handover. And we have today, seen the reasons for all those pranks,” Okorocha, in protest, narrated.
Former Governor Okorocha opened his salvo: “Governor Ihedioha should tell his audience what he wants from the former governor. Let him mention those things so that we can take off from there. What has he not been handed over? Let him mention it so that his motive can be clearer.
“In any case, he should find out why it appears that Imo people are not excited about his governorship and also not in agreement with him in all his blackmail against his predecessor. And also why on the day of his inauguration, Imo people never cared to know what was happening.
“Let him also know that by July, we are going to challenge him for a road walk with Owelle Okorocha on the major streets of Owerri. As we have continued to allude, he has come to unveil the Heroism of Owelle Okorocha.
“In case he does not know, the only thing he can do and dwarf Okorocha is to work and achieve more than him. Where he fails to do that, he has lost the contest.
“It is only his achievements more than what Okorocha did, that can help him in what he is trying to do; aside that, he should find other things to do or take the world as he sees it.
“Okorocha is the defending Champion of Imo governorship based on his achievements. There is nothing anybody can do about that.”








			
			Post Views: 
			141