A suspected notorious cultist and illegal oil bunkering kingpin, Korobe Menele Loveday, who has been on the wanted list of the security agencies for terrorizing communities in Rivers State has been killed.

According to the Six Division of the Nigerian Army, Loveday was killed when its personnel, in conjunction with personnel of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps guarding Shell Petroleum Development Company Trans National Pipelines at Gio community in Tai Local Government Area of the State were attacked by suspected militants who were hitherto prevented from vandalizing the pipeline.

Acting Deputy Director of the Army Public Relations, Colonel Aminu Iliyasu in a statement added that during the ensuing fire, one soldier and two personnel of the NSCDC lost their lives and their weapons were carted away by the assailants.

The army was able to track Loveday also known as Mene and shot him dead.

According to the Army, “In the early hours of today Sunday the 16th of June 2019, troops of 29 Battalion of 6 Division Nigerian Army (NA) in conjunction with personnel of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) guarding Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) Trans National Pipelines at Gio community in Tai Local Government Area (LGA) of Rivers State were attacked by suspected militants who were hitherto prevented from vandalizing 24″ and 28″ TNP thereby putting them out of the illicit business.

“Unfortunately, during the ensuing fire fight one soldier and 2 personnels of the NSCDC lost their lives and their weapons (one AK 47 and 2 G3 rifles) were carted away by the assailants.

“Reliable intelligence led to the tracking of the prime suspect, a notorious cultist and illegal oil bunkering kingpin Korobe Menele Loveday who has been on the wanted list of the security agencies for terrorizing communities in the state.

“Consequently, at about 9:00am, troops cashing on available information sighted a white Toyota Hilux vehicle without number plate, hastily driven with 4 occupants. Efforts to stop the vehicle by troops at a check point was ignored. The gallant troops chased the speeding vehicle and caught up with the suspects around Kira Junction, along Ken Saro Wiwa Polytechnic.

“The following items were recovered from the scene and in the vehicle:, 1 x K2 Rifle, 2 x Magazines loaded with 52 Rounds of 5.56mm, some personal effects, one pair of vehicle plate number KRK 95DP RIVERS and some documents.

“The body and other recovered exhibits have been handed over to the NSCDC Rivers State Command for further action, while troops continue to track the remaining fleeing bandits to face justice.

The General Officer Commanding 6 Division Maj Gen Jamil Sarham, has also reaffirm the commitment of the Division in protecting lives and properties of law abiding citizens in Rivers state.

He also solicits the cooperation of all stakeholders in tackling insecurity within the Niger Delta region through sharing of credible information to the security agencies.











			
			Post Views: 
			93