Barcelona have been told to sign one of their greatest ever players, by undoubtedly their greatest player ever- Lionel Messi.


Dani Alves was on target when Brazil beat Peru 5-0 in their final match of the Copa America’s group stage on Saturday evening. The former Juventus full back’s dream of adding another trophy to his massive haul is still alive and kicking, but the bigger news pertaining to him was that he had announced his PSG exit via the following statement:


“Today I close another cycle in my life, a cycle of victory, learning and experiences. I would like to thank the PSG family for the opportunity to together build a page in the history of this club. I would like to thank all the staff for their affection, respect and complicity from day one… you make this club a little more special. It was two years of resilience and continuous reinventing to fulfil my mission, but in life everything has a beginning, a middle and an end and now the time has come to put that final point here. I apologise if at any point I was not up to the pitch, I apologise if at some point I made a mistake, just tried to give my best. Thanks to all the companions for the moments lived, the laughter together, the boredom that your lazy spirits have put me through. If you ever remember me, be like the GOOD CRAZY of each day, with a beautiful smile on your face, with a pure energy of soul, as a professional worker and committed to the goals … as someone who just wanted to [be] better each day and you tried to make them understand the true meaning of the word team. A big hug to all and hope you do not miss my crazy things. With great affection GoodCrazy!!”

With Alves now being a free agent, Europe’s biggest clubs in the market are set to be on high alert. Manchester City, who were previously linked with him could be a side that sets their sights on signing the Brazilian, but there is a bigger suitor to the right back’s services in former employer Barcelona- who are keen on signing a right back- according to Fox Sports.

The Catalans have not found a good enough successor to Dani Alves, as Aleix Vidal was marred by injuries, Sergi Roberto struggles to defend well and Nelson Semedo does not contribute much to the attacking department. So, they would not mind moving for Alves again given that Messi loves playing alongside him and even at 36, he has some quality left in him.


			
			Post Views: 
			160