Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State will for a long time live with the ill-treatment he meted to the Sultan of Sokoto, His Royal Highness Sa’ad Abubakar II, in undermining his status and authority in the North when the royal father visited the Kano State Government House to intervene in the governor’s impasse and perceived plot to dethrone the Emir of Kano, His Highness Emir Sanusi Muhammad II.
National Daily gathered from the Kano State Government House Governor Ganduje not only disrespected the Sultan but also humiliated the royal father who had flown into Kano from Sokoto to mediate in the impasse the governor was having with the Emir of Kano. Government House sources said that the Sultan had arrived the Government House even with prior notice of visitation to the governor indicating the clear mission of mediating in the feud between Ganduje and Emir Sanusi.  The Government House sources said that the governor did not object to the coming of the Sultan, who is the head of the northern emirates. The request for the visit got the governor’s approval, the sources insisted.
To the consternation of staff, the royal father arrived the Kano Government House on schedule but was ignored by the Kano governor. Government House sources bemoaned that the Sultan waited to see the governor all through the day but was not given audience. “Not even an emissary was sent to the Sultan or a delegate,” the staff of the Government House complained.
ALSO READ: Panic as Trump orders mass deportation from US next week
They emphasized that the Sultan is the symbol of authority in the North that cannot be disrespected by anyone in the region.
The royal father after a long wait was said to have departed for Sokoto without having audience with the Kano Governor. He was, however, said to have had brief interaction with the Emir of Kano before departure.
The action was said to be irking Kano elders who also  intervened and attempted to prevail on Governor Ganduje to refrain from creating additional emirate out of the Kano Emirate but were ignored by the governor.
The phenomenon, National Daily gathered, has been generating cumulative anger in Kano which may spillover to the governorship election petition at the tribunal.



			
			Post Views: 
			239