Describes Adewale as a clown

Former National Vice Chairman of the Peoples’ Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Olabode George, has taken a swipe at some members of the party who defected to the All Progressives Congress and other issues affecting the party in Lagos state.

According to the PDP leader, any member of the party that wants to leave should go, adding that Sen. Adeseye Ogunlewe, who recently joined the APC, was a member of the Alliance for Democracy (AD), “so he simply moved back to where he came from.”

“Ogunlewe was a member of the Alliance for Democracy (AD), so he simply moved back to where he came from. They came from the APC.
ALSO READ: Gov Abiodun takes governance to people
George also revealed that Jimi Agbaje, the party’s governorship candidate in the state failed in the last election because ‘he thinks he knows it all’, adding that it was Lagos people that worked against him.

He said that Agbaje originally come from the APC and had been part of the ruling party in the state from the beginning.

“Was he not part of the ruling party in the state from the beginning? Some people are saying he is now in APC and all his movements indicate that he is now with them.”

“In the case of Dipo Olurunimu, his case was a different ball game. At a time, he was the only PDP member left in the Lagos State House of Assembly when others defected.

“But they were harassing him and he had to join them. APC is not a political party. Look at that Rita Orji she came around and got the ticket after that she started running around claiming to be the leader of the party in the state.

“Segun Adewale’s case is laughable; we need to pray for him, he is a very sick young man. The national body of the party has written that he is not a member of the party.

“If he says he is the chairman, I don’t know what party he is leading; but it is definitely not this PDP. We fought a good fight in the presidential election, we worked for Atiku and we are sure he won. But for Agbaje, he said he knows it all.

“There has been interference in the management of the party in the South West and we met some days ago and decided that never again are we going to allow anybody outside of our zone to come and interfere in the affairs of the party.

“Let the leaders face national issues; you cannot know my house more than me. They were handpicking candidates and imposing them on us and we have seen the results, but we are determined that this would never happen again,’ he added.
















			
			Post Views: 
			100