By ODIMMEGWA JOHNPETER/ABUJA
The Director General of the Nation youth service corps (NYSC), Brg Gen shuaibu Ibrahim, has stated that the NYSC has been at the fore – front of ensuring total compliance with the provision of the FOIA act since its enactment in 2011.The NYSC boss stated this in his address while declaring open Freedom of Information Desk Official workshop in Abuja. According to the director General, the workshop is aimed at consolidating the successes recorded by the scheme regarding the FOIA, and updating the Desk Officers’ Knowledge of the act as well as enhancing their competence to perform even better. The Director General further enjoined the Desk officers to step down the training they will receive during the workshop to other members of the staff in their various secretariats as well as the Corps FIOA vanguard. While acknowledging the positive transformation in the socio-Economics development of the country over the year brought by scheme, he urged all Nigerians to familiarize themselves with the NYSC act, so as to understand better, the operations of the scheme and its roles expectations. In her he own address during the workshop, the director, Press and Public Relations of NYSC, Mrs. Adenike Adeyemi noted that the NYSC has since keyed into this polices of Government, having appointed Desk Officers for the scheme who coordinate the polices of the FOIA both in the National Directorate Headquarters, Abuja and the 36 states/ FCT secretariats she also said that the training provided them with requisite platform to interact and rub minds with one another on the changes they face in course of carrying out their duties. Beyond that, she further stated that the workshop provides the participants with the opportunity for self-evaluation and feedback Mechanism, all geared towards improved service delivery. According to Mrs, Adeyemi, the topics of the workshop have been carefully selected in a manner that will stimulate profound discourse on the various implementation challenges facing Desk Officers. She enjoined all workshop participants to take full advantage of the program to sharpen their knowledge in order to be more effectives and efficient in service delivery. She further warned that no laxity or dereliction of duty shall be entertained as the participants have overtime been equipped to creditably discharge the mandate of the offices they occupy. END

			
			Post Views: 
			60