By Lanre Adesanya

The only fifth term member who led the  State 8th Assembly as Speaker Rt.Hon Mudashiru Obasa has retained his position as Governor Babajide Sanwoolu proclaims the 9th Assembly.

Sanwoolu’s proclamation of the 9th assembly was read by his Deputy Dr. Obafemi Hamzat as 29 old members who returned and 11 newly elected members, 40 altogether were inaugurated and sworn-in having taken the oath of office.

According to Sanwoolu, he is resolve to ensure harmonious relationship with the house for the overall good of Lagos State,he however task the lawmakers to do justice to the legislative business within time frames that won’t hamper development across the state.

“I am here with a heart of gratitude and to particularly commend Lagosians who came out in large number to vote our parties, APC as evidence in the composition of the House being convened today comprising of 100 percent members of our great party.

“This is an eloquent testimony to the unwavering commitment of our people to progressive ideals which we have sustained since 1999.

“As we commence these legislative duties, it is important to remind ourselves that although we belong to different arms of government, we are all accountable to the people of this great state who have repose a great deal of trust and confidence in our party.

According to him,the essence of the principle of separation of powers is to ensure checks and balances as well as to guarantee the independence of each arm of government.

“As progressive partner in this dispensation, we have a joint responsibility to raise the bar and move standard of governance to the next level.” He said.


The Clerk Mr Azeez Sanni made the roll call and confirmation of writs of Return of Members-Elect.


All the principal officers in the 8th Assembly retained their positions except the Deputy Chief Whip Hon Omotayo Oduntan Oyeledun, who did not return that was replaced with Hon. Mosunmola Sangodara, formerly the Minority Whip of the house while still a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) member.

The Speaker was reelected after nomination by Hon. Moshood Oshun and seconded Hon Oluyinka Ogundimu and affirmed by all other lawmakers.



ALSO READ: CAF President, Ahmad, arrested in France

As the case stands now, there are11 newly elected members for a first term experience,15 second term members,8 third term members, 5 fourth term members and one fifth term member in the 9th assembly just officially activated.

In his acceptance speech Obasa hinted the focal point of the 9th Assembly’s legislative task stressing the need for team work and strict adherence to the tenet of separation of powers,which debars undue interference in the legislature’s progression.


“I am fully aware of not only the honour you bestowed on me but the responsibilities of leading this highly respected institution. I promise you against all odds that I will make you proud; I will not let you down.

Obasa asserts that, “with well managed physical discipline, eradication of waste in our financial system, blocking of leakages in revenue collection, and encouraging transparency, probity and accountability, Lagos in few years can become what Paris or Tokyo is, clean and smart.

“Meanwhile, implementation of laws and policies should be taken with drastic efforts. No minor indiscipline should be allowed to go without its consequence.

“Since discipline makes a nation great and glorious, let us endeavour to ensure the implementation of our traffic, environmental, physical planning and Urban development laws. It is our strong view that Lagos can transform into a place like Tokyo.

“In achieving all these, we are ready to collaborate with other arms of government, especially the Executive for the success of this administration. Our doors are open to play a prominent role in taking Lagos to the next level.

“Our legislative agendas for the 9th Assembly are: To promote and strengthen legislative institutions from state level to local government level; to establish a Centre for Democracy and Legislative Studies; to review the old laws with a view to bring them to modern reality, particularly laws that establish agencies, parastatals that are no more viable; to rejig our regular legislative consultation; and to ensure prudent fiscal financial commitment through legislative process.















			
			Post Views: 
			72