The police said they have recovered 834 arms, 19,009 live ammunition, two rocket launchers and other exhibits in the last two months.
The Force also said 2,175 suspects were arrested for kidnapping, armed robbery, murder and cultism since the launch of Operation Puff Adder.
A statement by the Force spokesman Frank Mba, a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), said the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu, announced this in Abuja, the nation’s capital, while addressing a delegation of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) from Nasarawa State, led by Alhaji Aminu Muazu Maifata.
The delegation was in the IGP’s office for the Eid-el-Fitr sallah visit.
Briefing the delegation on the successes the police recorded in the fight against crime and criminality in the country, Adamu said since the launch of Operation Puff Adder on April 5, 63 kidnapped victims had been rescued unhurt by police operatives.
Giving a breakdown of the various offences they were arrested for, the police chief said 2,175 suspects were arrested for the following offences: kidnapping, 852; armed robbery, 865; murder, 359 and cultism, 99.
On the arms recovered, the IGP said 834 arms, including two rocket launchers, were recovered; 19,009 live ammunition also recovered with the Oyo State command recording the highest number of 9,500 live ammunition.
He added that the police were rejigging their strategies to ensure proactive interception of illicit weapons on the way into Nigeria and mop up unauthorised weapons in circulation.
ALSO READ:Operation Puff Adder recovers more ammunition in Oyo as thousands of kidnappers, bandits were busted
Adamu also hinted that a good number of the cases were being prosecuted in courts across the country, while many others were under investigation due to the complexity of the investigation and managing organised crimes.
In the face of criminality across the country, the IGP called for tougher laws against kidnapping and banditry, including possible state seizure of assets linked to illicit proceeds from kidnapping and other heinous crimes.
He expressed the belief that the law would act as a deterrent to potential kidnappers and other violent criminals.
Adamu explained that the call became imperative due to the increasing resort to these crimes by hoodlums in the society.
Hailing his men for doing a good job, the IGP noted that the huge arrests and arms recovered showed the efficacy of Operation Puff Adder and the unwavering support of the public to the police and other security agencies.


			
			Post Views: 
			80