Christian leaders under the auspices of Christian Association of Nigeria, says the foundation for Islamisation of Nigeria has since been laid by the makers of the Nigeria Constitution and some previous leaders of Nigeria.

The Christian body stated this through its National Director, Legal and Public Affairs, Evangelist Kwamkur Samuel Vondip, on the forthcoming CAN presidential elections and the state of the nation, in Jos, the Plateau State Capital.

He said examples are the provisions made in the Constitution for the operation of Sharia laws and courts. “This makes the common law and the Sharia law to be operating in the same constitution. This naturally has divided the nation into two and sets the tone for Islamization. The implication of this scenario is confusion,” he maintained.
ALSO READ: Islamisation agenda: Obasanjo is being mischievous – Lai Mohammed
“Furthermore, as we have said before, the registration of Nigeria, (a secular state) as a member of Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) by military fiat is a further confirmation of deliberate Islamization of the country. This calls for review if our leaders are sincere with their claim that nobody is Islamizing the country.

The Christian body commended former President Olusegun Obasanjo for speaking against the aforementioned plan.

“We commend sincerely the position of the former President of Nigeria, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo for opening up against the planned Islamization of Nigeria. The former President simply repeated what many of our CAN leaders have said before.

“We had even taken this in written a form to the Presidency for immediate attention. If what Obasanjo said should be doubted, what is the justification for the community cleansing by killer Fulani herdsmen who jump on innocent communities in the night killing them and taking over their communities? He asked.



“We never saw any far reaching steps taken to bring these killer herdsmen to book!

“How can you justify the Federal Government’s establishment of a radio station for Fulani? (Though this is being denied recently that is was established for nomadic education).

“Why can’t strict security measures that silenced the IPOB in few days be taken against Boko Haram and killer Fulani Herdsmen?

According to CAN, “We cannot for many years claim that our borders are porous and nothing is done about it. Nigeria cannot afford to be losing her citizens for years because we have an uncontrolled border.

On the fight against corruption; CAN said, “While quite a number of Nigerians have been arrested and prosecuted with others undergoing investigation and prosecution, it is not news that a lot of corrupt former and present leaders are moving freely suggesting the selective nature of the fight.

“The fight against corruption must go beyond media propaganda and be wholistic and no less,” the Christian body stressed.








			
			Post Views: 
			81