The Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai, on Tuesday, joined troops of Operation Hadarin Daji at their headquarters in Gusau, Zamfara State, to celebrate Sallah in his bid boost their morale.
The Army spokesman, Col Sagir Musa, remarked that the visit was undertaken to felicitate with the troops as they marked the Eld El Fitri in war fronts against bandits and kidnappers.
ALSO READ: Boko Haram chases soldiers, takes over town in Borno
Col Musa explained in a statement that the COAS was represented by the Chief of Training and Operations at the Army headquarters, Major Gen. Lamidi Adeosun.
“The Chief of Army Staff, represented by the Chief of Training and Operations of the Nigerian Army, Major General Lamidi Adeosun, had joined other Muslim faithfuls to this years’ Eid Fitr prayer at the Force Headquarters, Operation HADARIN DAJI in Gusua, Zamfara State.
“Major General Adeosun delivered the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen TY Buratai’s goodwill message to the Officers and Soldiers of the Nigerian Army (1 Brigade and HADARIN DAJI) shortly after the prayers.
“He commended the troops for their dedication, sacrifices and loyalty to the Nation.
“He urged them to remain steadfast in the ongoing efforts to checkmate insurgency, banditry and other associated insecurities in Nigeria.
“The Chief Iman of 1 Brigade, Capt A Kado, offered prayers for peace and security in Nigeria. Prayers were offered for the repose of those who lost their lives in the struggle to ensure peace and security in our country.
“Dignitaries that attended the prayer session included the Force Commander, Operation HADARIN DAJI Maj Gen JJ Ogunlade, Principal Staff Officers, community leaders, soldiers and their families.
“At the end of the prayer session, Maj Gen Adeosun and his entourage visited Forward Operation Base in Kauran Namoda where he also conveyed the goodwill message of the Chief of Army Staff to the troops and other security agencies,” Musa narrated.








			
			Post Views: 
			47