Former President Goodluck Jonathan, and the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 general elections, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, reacted swiftly to the military uprising, condemning the aborted bloody coup in Ethiopia.
Former President Jonathan in a statement restated his belief that nobody’s political ambition is worth the blood of citizens. He declared support for the democratic government in Ethiopia, saying that the established democracy in Africa must be sustained.
“I have long said, believed and practised the principle that nobody’s political ambition is worth the blood of any citizen.
“As such, it bleeds my heart when there is unnecessary and avoidable bloodshed, as has just happened in Ethiopia.
ALSO READ: Ethiopian army chief shot dead in aborted coup 
“I go further to call on men and women of goodwill around the world to also condemn such anti-democratic actions and show solidarity to the democratically elected constitutional order in Ethiopia.
“Democracy has come to rest in Africa. Constitutionality and the rule of law are what we in Africa need, especially, in the cradle of civilisation and the melting pot of the African Union,” Jonathan had declared
Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar also decried that any coup is against the tenets of democracy extending his hand of fellowship for peace to the people of Ethiopia.
Atiku on his Twitter handle said: “The coup attempt against the democratically elected government of @PMEthiopia stands condemned. Democracy has come to stay in Africa and we must accept this. As a democrat, my right hand of fellowship is offered to the people of Ethiopia.”
National Dailye earlier reported that Ethiopia’s Army Chief, General Seare Mekonnen, was assassinated on Saturday during the coup. He was shot dead by his bodyguard while trying to foil the coup.
Later, Brigadier General Asaminew Tsige, leader of the coup, was killed while attempting to escape from his hideout in Amhara’s capital, Police said.
A top government adviser was also shot dead.








			
			Post Views: 
			106