As FC Barcelona ends the season winning just the league. Some of the players have shown discontent over their performances.

While some notable figures in the sport have said winning the league is something great.


Marc Te Stegen pens down how he feels and more after playing 190 matches for Barcelona.

Here is the letter:

Dear Barça Family and Fans,

The 2018/2019 season comes to a close on a club level, and at the same time it’s the end of my season, since I won’t be joining the national team because of knee problems. I am fully dedicated to my recovery and am currently working hard at our facilities to be back to 100% as soon as possible. It was an intense season and I’m looking forward to summer vacation to rest and clear my mind.

We achieved our objective of winning La Liga, and this time with a significant margin over our rivals. We worked hard to lift the trophy again, and this time we celebrated it at Camp Nou. This is my fourth league title won in five years. And for FC Barcelona, it’s the 8th league title won in 11 years. That’s a big achievement!



ALSO READ: Akpoborie challenges Rohr

Nevertheless, I’m as disappointed as everybody else — including my teammates, the club, and the fans — that our season ended the way it did. It was a good season for us, but it wasn’t perfect, with some tough moments at the end.

First, in the Champions League against Liverpool at Anfield, where we simply weren’t good enough. Second, in the final against Valencia where we weren’t able to make history by winning five consecutive Copa del Rey trophies.

I am currently working hard at our facilities to be back to 100% as soon as possible.

It’s the end of my fifth year, and I have now played 190 matches wearing the blaugrana colors with pride. It’s an honor to hear you chant my name the way you do! Thank you for the support behind the goal, the support at away games, and the way you treat and respect my family and me in this special city. Your support is felt beyond the field of play. And for those who don’t live here, I try my best to thank as many of you as I can on social media. It’s impressive to see our incredibly active global fanbase.

To conclude, I also would like to thank everybody at the club, in every department, for all the great work they do, and for the constant support they give us every day.

I hope everyone has a great summer!

Marc








			
			Post Views: 
			48