After successful editions in 2017 and 2018, Life Lager, the beer brand behind the widely acclaimed indigenous talent hunt show, Hi-Life Fest, has announced that the third edition of the music competition will be aired on TV stations across Africa.

The announcement was made at a special media parley in Enugu recently.

This will be the first edition of the competition to be broadcast on local and cable TV, as episodes of the show will be airing shortly after each stage of the competition.

This episodic treatment has got fans excited, and with Gideon Okeke announced as the official host for the TV show, we can expect to enjoy another enthralling edition of one of the most beloved indigenous talent hunt competitions in Nigeria.

Speaking after the media announcement, Life Lager Brand Manager, Chidi Egwu said Hi-Life Fest has been one of the most beloved experiential platforms. “This is one of the ways we connect with our consumers and celebrate our shared love for highlife music. After two successful editions which produced two remarkably talented individuals, we’ve decided to take this competition a step further and showcase these talents to the whole of Nigeria.

“Our partnership with Soundcity will see us release episodes of this year’s competition. This television treatment will not only showcase the talents of our contestants but will also profile their evolution as they go along the tournament. We want to celebrate their progress and show the world that some of the best musical talents can be discovered in South-Eastern Nigeria.”

Kicking off on the 9th of June, the regional auditions will be hosted in Enugu, Asaba, Awka, and Aba. Winners from these regions will be taken to Lagos for a week of mentoring by some of the leading acts in the Nigerian music scene. After this, contestants will head back to the South-east for the quarterfinal in Port Harcourt on the 14th of July. The semi-final will be held in Enugu on the 28th of July and final is slated for Onitsha on the 11th of August.

Hi-Life fest is an initiative of Life Continental Lager Beer, from the stables of Nigerian Breweries Plc. It is made from the finest choice of grains, hob extracts and the purest of waters. Life Beer is expertly brewed to give that rich, crisp distinctive taste and well-rounded aroma in the true quality fashion of the master brewer.











			
			Post Views: 
			92