The Nigerian healthcare system is like a fairy tale of both the good and the ugly. It is good in the sense that it has successfully trained world class healthcare professionals that are doing amazing jobs within and outside the shores of Africa. However, the bad tends to overshadow the good because it has led to avoidable untimely deaths of many.
While the trained medical personnel are mostly skilled, poor infrastructure and pathetic working conditions arising from systemic corruption and government apathy have paralyzed the system. Furthermore, the fact that government officials, including the president of Nigeria, travel abroad for medical treatment shows that they do not have faith in the system for which they are responsible.
I decided to pen down my thoughts after reading some weeks ago that the Nigeria Government gave 30,000 tonnes of drugs, medical equipment, insecticide treated nets and 500,000 U.S. dollars to the Republic of Malawi that was hit by a tropical cyclone. There is no point doubting the financial capacity and strength of Nigeria as a nation, we have always been known to give sacrificially in cash and kind to different countries around the world. Also, when it comes to military intervention, Nigeria has single handedly restored peace to many countries in Africa. The Nigerian military prides itself as having one of the finest artilleries in peacekeeping and UN operations globally. The immediate past Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama, once said that “Nigeria had a special duty and responsibility to be a big brother in Africa, adding that any tragedy or misfortune that befalls any African country in Africa or outside the continent befalls Nigeria and it was a burden for the country.” The former minister’s views are definitely valid. However, an Igbo proverb states that “a person whose house is burning does not have time to chase rats”.
To give relief materials is kind but trying to be a big brother to other African countries when our health care is nothing to write home about does not portray us as people who know our onions. It is shameful that we keep throwing our weight around without living up to our full potential. At the moment, most of Nigeria’s federal and state hospitals lack state of the art equipment. Well to do patients would rather do medical tests, x-ray, etc. at private hospitals due to lack of adequate equipment at government hospitals. The poor will mostly resign to fate as they cannot afford the most basic of services rendered by private health care facilities.
For instance, the Department of Dentistry of Obafemi Awolowo University was unable to relocate to their new site as a result of lack of medical equipment. The current Vice Chancellor of the University, who is a Professor of Dentistry was the one, alongside the Chief Medical Director of the Teaching Hospital, that ensured the department was able to relocate to the new site regardless of all the inadequacies. A couple of years ago, I decided to remove one disturbing tooth at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital but during the operation, there was an interruption in power supply and the alternative was not functioning at the time. To save time and prevent bleeding or infection, the doctors had to remove the tooth manually instead of using an electrically powered handpiece which was supposed to be efficient and ease my pain.
The erstwhile Minister of Health, Professor Isaac Adewole, said opined last year that “according to the data obtained from the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria, there is no serious shortage of doctors in Nigeria”. I find this statement a bit difficult to comprehend and quite unfortunate because all the indices and indicators show that Nigeria is experiencing massive brain drain in every sector of the economy, including the healthcare arena. A lot of Nigerian medical doctors now prefer to immigrate to places like the US, Canada, and Australia for greener pastures. Some who are already consultants in Nigeria prefer to be demoted and study rigorously to pass the medical exams in those countries.
Thereby starting all over again from ground zero up.
The question any serious nation should ask is what are the reasons behind the plethora of emigrations of her qualified medical professionals? I have identified some of the reasons and I hereby proffer my humble solutions to revitalize our healthcare system.
The government of Nigeria train health care professionals at low cost, only for them to immigrate to advanced countries.
This in itself is a waste of valuable resources. The government needs to play more of a fatherly role at home before thinking of being a big brother to other nations. This is paramount because Nigeria is yet to get things straightened out. Playing a big brother outside does not portray Nigeria in the right image, it only gives reasons for other nations to have a good laugh at a lacklustre and pathetic giant of Africa. It goes without saying that medical professionals should get reasonable remuneration that will make them not want to look elsewhere. Nigeria may not have to pay the highest but the pay should be good enough to make people stay. This will provide incentives for medical professionals to stay at home, rather than looking beyond our shores. Paying doctors decent wages can be achievable since Nigeria can afford to pay senators whopping salaries, allowances and other benefits.
In addition, more startups and private sector participants should be given incentives to invest in the system. These could include tax cuts, loans and allocated lands to build more private hospitals. Encouraging the private sector to thrive in the health sector or any other part of the economy will boost the economy by creating jobs, lifting some weight off the shoulders of government and reducing the workload of healthcare personal. It has been proven beyond all doubt that the private sector does better when given good incentives.
More so, the government should subsidize medicare for low income citizens. A well structured private medicare insurance can be incorporated directly into the payroll system thus covering the cost of treating patients with acute or chronic illnesses such as cancer, diabetes or any other form of life-threatening ailment. With a vibrant healthcare system, wealthy Nigerians will no longer have to seek treatment overseas. Interestingly, wealthy Nigerians who currently travel outside the country end up being treated by doctors from Nigeria. An assurance and awareness of having access to a properly structured medicare and state of the art facilities will give the necessary feeling of care by the government and restore confidence in the system.
In conclusion, healthcare facilities must be equipped with modern equipment. Power supply is extremely crucial for the life support of patients and the smooth running of the system as a whole. Federal and state hospitals should collaborate with the private sector to implement alternative power distribution using renewable energy such as biogas, solar, wind, etc. for 24/7 power generation. There is no point having a crucial sector of the Nigeria economy like the healthcare sector on the epileptic main grid.
The aforementioned suggestions are not exhaustive and it is important to note that they are not rocket science. All that is required is a responsive government that is willing to be in tune and empathise with the people they lead. I believe in the greatness of Nigeria!
Taiwo Tope Adetiloye
tope.adetiloye@gmail.com

			
			Post Views: 
			62