There are indications that Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State may not be abiding with the reconciliation initiated Alhaji Aliko Dangote and Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State to resolve the governor’s rift with the Emir of Kano, Sanusi Muhmmad II. The governor is still sustaining and the political structures and institutions of the state he deployed for the probable dethronement of the Kano Emir before the intervention of Dangote and Governor Fayemi, Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum.   More so, the structures are still intensifying the indictment of the Emir for reasons best known to the state government after the reconciliation meeting.
The reconciliation meeting was sufficient for Governor Ganduje to dissolve the structures or order suspension of further proceedings in their activities if he was satisfied with the reconciliation and peace initiative.
National Dailylearned that the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission, constituted by Governor Ganduje, sustains its investigation into allegations of corruption against the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, reiterating that the Emir authorised spending by the Emirate.
National Daily also gathered that in a seven-page letter signed by the commission’s Executive Chairman, Muhuyi Magaji, dated June 11, 2019, addressed to the Secretary to the Kano State Government, the commission maintained its investigation and findings, attaching documents showing that the Emir authorised the expenses incurred. It countered the Emirs response to a query issued him by Governor Ganduje.
It was indicated that Emir Sanusi, in his response to the query, had said that he was not the accounting officer of the Emirate; the commission argued that all expenses made by the Emirate Council are either based on the approval or instruction of His Highness.
“Therefore, any claim that the Emir is not Accounting Officer of the Kano Emirate is a deception and a misrepresentation of facts,” the commission declared.
The commission maintained that the initial amount at the emirates bank account with First Bank prior to the death of late Ado Bayero was over N7 billion, noting that after few withdrawals, Emir Sanusi inherited N4. 7 billion. “The bulk of this”, the commission alleged, “was illegally spent.”
The commission, therefore, urged the state government to implement its initial recommendations in the interest of public policy and the anti-corruption drive.








			
			Post Views: 
			41