The 2023 presidential ambition of All Progressives Congress national leader, Bola Tinubu is said to be responsible for his fierce support for Ahmed Lawan to become the next Senate President,National Daily has gathered.

This is the submission of the Arewa Youth Consultative Form, which at the weekend linked the support currently be enjoyed by Senator Ahmed Lawal to the secret pursuit of personal ambitions of top APC chieftains ahead of the 2023 general elections.

In a statement seen byNational Daily,President of AYCF, Yerima Abbas Shettima fingered Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the national leader of the APC, and Nasir El-Rufai, the governor of Kaduna state, as being behind Lawan’s ambition in a desperate move ahead of 2023 polls.

“It is obvious that the desperation to make the road to Senate presidency smooth for Tinubu’s acolyte (Sen Lawan), Buhari’s foot-soldiers, especially Governor Nasir El-Rufai are coming up with a new narrative to pull a blind wool over our eyes.
ALSO READ: Reps-elect dismiss CUPP, stay behind Gbajabiamila
He cautioned Nigerians to beware of this clandestine plans, warning that no one should hide behind any political party to turn federal lawmakers into mere pawn in their mischievous calculations.
The group recalled how it predicted that Senator Danjuma Goje would step down when he is pressured into submission using his pending case at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).

“We also declared that he could alternatively be forced to step down from the race in exchange for his freedom from EFCC’s hot chase,” it stated.

“We are happy to inform all Nigerian progressives that we have been vindicated in all the public declarations we made recently on the contentious seat of the Senate presidency.


“The Kaduna governor is trying to sell a dummy to Nigerians that the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) has done the needful regarding Goje’s case with the EFCC.

“And we ask: Which attorney-general, when all ministers have since resigned?
“What is the meaning of taking a case that was under investigation by an independent body, to an attorney-general who is not the judge in the court handling the Senator Goje case?

“These are questions begging for answers and we are tempted to assume that the EFCC is about to be hindered from continuing with the case because Chief Tinubu, who has been pushing Buhari harder, has vested interest to do with his 2023 presidential ambition,” AYCF claimed.





			
			Post Views: 
			89