Rivers United have qualified for the round of 16 of the 2019 AITEO Cup after beating Akwa United 3-0 in Enugu recently, National Daily gathered.

Kehinde Adedipe, Bright Onyedikachi and Ossy Martins were the goalscorers for the ‘Pride of Rivers’ in the round of 32 clash decided at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium.

Rivers United started in barn storming fashion and could have scored in the opening 60 seconds when Martins got on the end of a teasing Peter Ubakanma delivery off a corner only for Etboy Akpan to clear his goal bound header off the line.

Akwa responded in the seventh minute with the Rivers United goalkeeper, Abiodun Akande forced into making a smart save to deny  Dennis Nya who struck with purpose from the edge of the box.

Rivers United scored with their next goal attempt with Adedipe’s effort off an Ubakanma delivery from a free kick, crossing the line despite the best attempts by the Akwa defence to prevent the ball from hitting the back of the net.


They almost got caught out in the 23rd minute following an electrifying Rivers United counter attack which ended with Bakary Bamba heading agonizingly wide from eight yards after he was set up brilliantly by the impressive Onyedikachi.

Moments later, Ubakanma fired an indirect free kick inches wide as the Port Harcourt side began to tighten the screw.

Seven minutes before the break, Akwa had and missed their best chance of the half when an unmarked Ocheme Edoh placed a header from six yards wide when it seemed easier to score.

The Uyo club, buoyed by that action, made one last push in an attempt to get back on level terms before the game got to the half way stage.

Temple Emekayi needlessly gave away a free kick at the edge of the Rivers United penalty area on the stroke of half time and set piece expert, Ndifreke Effiong stepped forward to take.

ALSO READ:Rivers United snap Enyimba’s 12-match unbeaten run

He struck it brilliantly and the ball seemed destined to nestle in the bottom corner but Akande produced an extraordinary save to push the ball away for a corner.


“Today was their (Rivers United’s) day. We (Akwa United) didn’t play so bad but we had our chances and didn’t take them while they took theirs,” Edoh told National Daily.

Technical manager of Rivers United FC, Stanley Eguma also shared his post match thoughts.

“We had our tactical plans for this game against Akwa United. I watched them in Lagos during the Super Six playoffs and studied their weaknesses with the aim of exploiting them.

“My players were prepared and this win will boost their confidence as our focus is to go as far as possible in this competition,” he said.


			
			Post Views: 
			31