Owerri,the Eastern Heartland will be agog recently,as golf players Ghana,Cameroun,Zimbabawe,Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria storm Owerri for the South-East Golf shoot out taking place at the Arsenal Golf course Obinze, National Daily gathered.


The Chief Executive of Africa Tour,the organisers of the tournament,Chief Emeka Okata explained that Africa Tour is a platform that educates people about golf and at the same time provides training for amateur golfers that wants to learn golf as well as providing the enablement for professionals to come together to excel.

He stated that the Organization had in the past organized over 20 tournaments gathering players from eleven different countries.

On the south east tournament,he disclosed that two days will be for stroke play,stressing that each player should make plus six cut per day or shown the exit door from the competition.

further hinted that the exercise is a nine hole straight play and not eighteen,stressing that it is not s match play tournament.


Okata,a member of the Nigeria Golf Federation,regretted that no child from the south east has represented in any golf tournament.


He disclosed that Africa Tour will soon build a 100% free Golf Academy at Arsenal Golf Owerri,pointing out that the academy when instituted will train children that has interest in playing golf.He seemingly frowned at lack of interest for golf by the private sector,revealing that one can erk a living through golf.

ALSO READ:Drama as Africa tour  N0.1 seed crashes out of Southeast shoot out

Mr Edwin Osubo the technical director of Africa Golf Tour told National Daily that golf started over 2oo hundred years ago as a recreation,pointing out that it is a game of honour and helps to bring intergrity.

He regretted that golf is misconceived to be a game for elites and expensive too,disclosing that greatest golfers today were green keepers.He further revealed that golf is the only sports that cannot be influenced because it has rules and regulations,disclosing that Tiger Wood was disqualified because he missed a cut.

Amos Gobbler noted that the lacks sponorship and attributed it to reasons why they are not going far in the sports.Others that spoke includes Nigerian born Sunday Olapado and Michael Ubi.