The Arewa Youth Consultative Forum has described the face-off between governor of Kano State, Abdullai Ganduje and the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II as unnecessary, accusing the governor of being power drunk.
Recall that the rift stated when the governor decided to split the Kano emirate into four independent emirates, and also queried Sanusi for allegedly misappropriating the Emirate Council’s N3.4 billion.
It was gathered that the Ganduje-led administration in the state was planning on the complete deposition of the Emir after the final report of the anti-corruption and Public Complaint Commission which investigated him on the alleged squandering of the Emirate Council’s funds.
Reacting to the purported plans to have the Emir removed, President General of the AYCF, Yerima Shettima, warned that the deposition of Emir Sanusi would lead to crisis in Kano State.
According to Shettima: “The issue is totally unnecessary; but I thank God for the ongoing interventions and reconciliation at the instance of well-meaning Nigerians.
ALSO READ: How Dangote made Gov. Ganduje halt plot to dethrone Emir Sanusi 
“I thank God because the alleged move won’t happen because if it happens, Kano would have gone into crisis and we all know how Kano is when it comes to the issue of violence.
“It’s really a terrible place to experience violence. I thank God for those who intervened also you can’t undermine the place of a traditional ruler. The Kano traditional Emirate has been there for over five centuries and Ganduje thinks he can just wake up one day because he has four years and undermine that institution that would amount to calamity.
“Ganduje is power drunk and he is abusing it in this matter. He can’t be fighting everybody at the same time no matter how powerful he is. Ganduje is nothing but a common mortal. He can’t be fighting everybody, it’s so embarrassing there was no reason for the crisis, he just went about creating unnecessary panic everywhere. In the nearest future he is going to bear the cross for so many things he has done.”

			
			Post Views: 
			70