Not many see plums fruits which included fruits such as apple and pear as quite beneficial, but research has shown that they are quite beneficial in controlling diabetes, obesity and aid digestions and many other health issues.

According to USDA National Nutrient Database, they are an excellent source of vitamins such as vitamin A, vitamin C (ascorbic acid), folate, and vitamin K (phylloquinone).

They are also a good source of vitamin B1 (thiamine), B2 (riboflavin), B3 (niacin), B-6, and vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol). The minerals present in them include potassium, fluoride, phosphorus, magnesium, iron, calcium, and zinc. They also supply dietary fiber and offer very low calories without any harmful fats.

They are packed with an immense range of phenols and flavonoids, which offer an impressive range of health benefits acts as antioxidants they contain vitamin C and phytonutrients such as lutein, cryptoxanthin, zeaxanthin, neochlorogenic, and acid.

These components possess effective antioxidant qualities which help in preventing the damage caused by oxygen radicals called superoxide anion radicals. A study published in the Journal of Medicinal t the essential fats in the neurons and cell membranes against any injuries caused by oxidative stress.

Regular intake pf plums fruits also help control diabetes as they help reduce blood sugar and triglyceride levels in the body. The flavonoids present in plums exert protective effects against insulin resistance and help to enhance insulin sensitivity in the body.

Dr. Bernard P Halloran conducted a research study, published in the Journal of Nutrition, which demonstrated that regular consumption of dried plums also helps in the restoration of bone density that has already been lost due to aging.

They are a good source of dietary fiber, along with the components sorbitol and isatin, which help in regulating the digestive system.

According to a research study conducted by Dr. Attaluri A, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine, USA, published in the Ailmentary Pharmacology and Therapeutics Journal, dried plums or prunes are more effective in treating digestive disorders such as constipation as compared to other remedies such as psyllium husk. [

Studies have also shown that the flavonoids present in the juice made from plums are effective in providing protection against age-related cognitive impairment. The beneficial phytonutrients present in plums help in reducing inflammation in the neurological areas to improve learning and memory functions. Regular consumption of plums also helps in preventing age-related neurodegenerative disorders.

Plums contain vitamin B6, which helps in the transmission of nerve signals and aids in the smooth functioning of the nervous system. They also help in the normal growth of the brain and assist in the formation of mood influencing hormones.

Researchers from the Department of Food Science and Nutrition, University of Minnesota, USA, has provided supporting evidence regarding the fact that the regular intake of dried plums helps in promoting fluidity of blood in the arteries.

Plums are beneficial in strengthening the immune defense of the body due to the presence of high vitamin C content. This vitamin promotes the body’s resistance to infections and inflammations.

Research has shown that oriental plums have immunostimulatory constituents that encourage the production of nitric oxide in the body, impede the metastasis of tumor cells, and are valuable in preventing various diseases. [18]


Plum products are beneficial during pregnancy, due to the abundance of numerous vitamins and minerals.

These beneficial components are vital for eye-sight, development of bones and tissues, and cellular health for the mother and the growing baby. The fiber content aids in preventing constipation and improves digestion.

The inclusion of plums as a part of a balanced diet helps in fighting various infections and maintains overall health.  However, one should be careful regarding the choice of commercially available plum juices as they might contain high amounts of sugar.







			
			Post Views: 
			184