How Ganduje’s commission indicted Emir Sanusi of Kano on N3.4bn misappropriation
…Recommended suspension
There are emerging signals that Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State is perfecting plots to dethrone the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II. Invariably, the royal father of the Kano Emirate may be on the verge of being forced out of office by Governor Ganduje whenever the recommendation of the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-corruption Commission is implemented. Thus, the Emir of Kano is becoming one of the first set of victims of the NEXT LEVEL governance philosophy of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).
The Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-corruption Commission constituted by the Governor has recommended the suspension of His Highness, Emir Sanusi Muhammadu II from office.
National Daily learned that the commission in its investigation of the Royal Father on alleged misappropriation, claimed it uncovered that N3.4 billion was misspent by the emirate under Sanusi, adding that it was misappropriated between 2014 and 2017.
The recommendation was said to be contained in a preliminary report of investigation conducted by the commission and signed by its Chairman, Muhuyi Magaji.
The interim report was said to have raised four cardinal issues bordering on indictments, amount involved, obstruction of investigation and recommendations.
ALSO READ: Falana condemns Judges attack on public interest litigation
The report indicated that the Kano Emirate Council had spent over N1.4 billion in various expenditures believed to be fraudulent and un-appropriated.
In addition, the emirate council was alleged to have spent over N1.9 billion un-appropriated on seemingly personal expenditures, making the total sum of the questionable expenditures.
According to the report, the expenditures contravened the provisions of section 120 of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) and section 8 of the Kano state emirate council special fund law 2004.
Similarly, the expenditure had also violated Section 314 of penal code as well as provisions of section 26 of the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission Law 2008 (as amended).
The report read: “It is also the opinion of this Commission, based on the available evidence, that Emir Muhammadu Sanusi II continued to undermine the investigation through various means which include giving instruction to all officers invited for clarification to shun the commission’s invitation.
“The act is seriously affecting the process of our statutory responsibility and offends the provisions of Section 25 of the Commission’s enabling Law 2008 (as amended).”
The report, therefore, recommended that the “principal suspect in the person of Muhammadu Sanusi II and all other suspects connected with the case be suspended, pending the final outcome of the investigations”.
“This is a necessary administrative disciplinary action aimed at preventing the suspects from further interfering with the commission’s investigations.
“The commission further recommends that the contract awarded to Tri-C Nigeria Limited for renovation of Babban Daki, Kofar Kudu and Gidan Sarki Dorayi should be revoked as the company belongs to one of the suspects in person of Alhaji Mannir Sanusi, (The Chief of Staff in the Emirate),” the Commission declared.












 
 





			
			Post Views: 
			994