A 34-yerar-old student of the Lagos State Polytechnic has killed himself following a break-up with his girlfriend of nine years in May.
Ezekiel Mayowa was studying part-time hospitality management technology before his death, and his girlfriend Bolaji Temmy, 24, was a former student of the school serving her fatherland currently.
Lagos State Polytechnic, Ezekiel Mayowa, has killed himself after he was reportedly dumped by his girlfriend.
Mayowa’s body was found at his residence in Eyita, Ikorodu, around 5am on Friday. He was said to have taken a poisonous substance suspected to be Sniper.
He, however, left a three-minute video on Facebook.
Mayowa, in the video, was lamenting overTemmy’s sudden coldness to him since she left for the National Youth Service.
“I will advise the Federal Government to scrap NYSC because that is where I lost my joy; my love,’ he said in the video.
I am not a bad boy; I am not wicked. Since my woman got into that (NYSC) camp, everything changed. Since last year, we’ve not been able to resolve anything. My woman is now taking an advantage of the mistake I made three years ago to leave me.
“I am going, I need to go, Bolaji Temmy is the woman I’m talking about. I need to go. To all the boys out there, please try to make money before you date any woman. I’ve tried my best. I’ve tried all I could. We’ve been dating for nine years and now she is leaving. I hurt her in the past, but I’ve appealed to her. But she insisted on leaving me.”
“I will miss my mum. Mummy, please don’t cry. I have chosen my own path…I will miss you all. Your president is going…I am going. I am going now. I am empty. Bye,” he concluded.
He was the president of his department.
Police have since started investigation
Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bala Elkana, said the Shagamu Road Police Station, Ikorodu, received a distress call on the suicide around 5.30am.
According to him, the girlfriend said Mayowa was fond of beating her and that they were together shortly before he took the poison.
“He was rushed to hospital by his neighbours following an alarm raised by his girlfriend, but eventually died. In the statement of his girlfriend, she told police investigators that she and the deceased dated for nine years and that the deceased was fond of beating her,’ said Elkana.
Temmy also told her interrogators that while she was in Mayowa’s room, they had a quarrel and he, as usual, resorted to physical violence.
“She said she ran to the rest room and upon her return, she found him gasping for breath with an empty bottle of Sniper beside him.”
Students of tertiary institutions taking their own lives is becoming frequent.
The National daily earlier reported there were 11 incidents so far, and Mayowa’s makes the 12th case between 2017 till date.
 
 
 

			
			Post Views: 
			66