As the 8th lapses on Thursday the 6th day of June, yesterday many cold wars and wrangling were brought to fore as the lawmakers who through electoral process, made it back to the house those who could not, took turns to x-ray the journey so far.
The special valedictory session which was held in a manner unusual with Assembly, had no funfair at least for the benefit of those who are not returning, as they were just given time to say few words,same goes for those who are returning.
However, the tenor of the session hinges on countless eulogies and encomiums poured on the Senator-elect, Hon Bayo Osinowo who many regarded as the stabilizer of the Assembly and the Speaker Rt.Hon.Mudashiru Obasa,whom they affirmed did the unprecedented having been a self styled leader.
Intrigues
Back in the days of his predecessor, Rt. Adeyemi Ikuforiji trainings for the staffers and  appendages of the assembly was a given,as everyone was allowed opportunity to be better in terms of capacity building and competence,the void of this in Obasa’s time was captured in the counsel of Hon.Adebisi Yusuff of Alimosho Constituency I,who vehemently harps on the need for the Speaker to see to staffers welfare and periodic trainings.
The four years of Obasa’s reign as  speaker was rather dotted with distrust,fear of the unknown as the bearings of the house was not fathomable through available indices even those sources who in time past speak truth to power now shy away for the fear of not been listed in the Speaker’s black book.
The Speaker’s bullish tendencies were clearly substantiated in the clearly untempered comments of Hon.Sola Giwa Lagos Island constituency II,Hon.Folajimi Mohammed Ikeja 1 and Hon. Moshood Oshun,Hon.Sanai Agunbiade Ikorodu 1,and Deputy Speaker Hon. Wasiu Eshinlokun,as they all alluded to the fact that Obasa deals with them not like colleagues as expected conviviality were largely missing,but he most times seemingly treated them with ignominy.
According to Giwa who was not too lucky to stage a come back to the assembly, for more than three years he was deliberately shut down by Mr. Speaker,owing to an erroneous view of his person,having been actively involved in the processes of selecting who becomes Speaker of 8th assembly, an animosity he said did not stop until few months to the end of the said Parliament.
“I was deliberately denied an opportunity to make contributions on the floor by Mr.Speaker even when I indicated my poise to make contributions having conferred with the Majority Leader Hon Sanai Agunbiade, on whatever issues we have on order paper and researched deeply to make informed contributions on the floor.
” This lasted for more than three years and I feel it has much to do with my involvement in the process that brought in Rt.Hon. Obasa as speaker.
ALSO READ: Afuye Emerges Ekiti Assembly Speaker
“It was indeed a perilous time for me but I came out of it a more gentle,matured,prayerful and more friendly because I just did my things as an Islander in time past without fear of anyone,Deputy Speaker Wasiu Eshilokun brought me here and I am still a son in his political dynasty,though I am not coming back here as an honourable in the 9th Assembly.” Giwa said.
Hon. Folajimi Mohammed who happens to be the youngest but privileged amongst the lawmakers,took objections to the mien of Speaker who he said most times when he visited his office to discuss issues he feels is important,does not give him the needed attention,but rather fiddles his phones or changes his TV set’s channel, not even look at him to elicit a connection,he barely say I have heard you till takes his leave.
Folajimi as well as other lawmakers who spoke,also cited the fact that most times when they visit the Clerk of the House who heads the administrative section of the Assembly Mr. Azeez Sanni to make demands,he would often ask that they discuss with the Speaker first,an indication that even administrative decisions are subject to his approval at all times.
“I have negative vibes when I got here speaking with the Speaker about an important issue I feel will better the lot of our people and he keeps busy with his phone.
Hon.Oshun was quick to add that the Speaker most times when approached on issues that bothers on welfare and staffers comfort,would say in Yoruba,’won yo ni’ meaning ‘don’t mind them they have been over pampered’, this laid credence to the claims by some staffers who most times complained that they faired much better during Ikuforiji’s era than Obasa’s as far as welfare is concerned.
The Majority Leader however, crowned it all when he pin pointed the fact that the Speaker was misinformed by some sweet talkers and sycophants who tells him what he likes hearing which are most times far away from truth and really slow down the pace of achievements in the 8th Assembly.
” We could have done better if not for some lapses which I want to identify and would like us to take care of in the 9th Assembly.
“Those bootlicking and fabricating what is not must stop it,as they merely do that to gain and curry favours from Mr.Speaker not to help strengthen the house.
“Hon.Osinowo won’t be around at that time as he has by his good deed moved higher,what we need do to make him happy is to live by his dictates,of forgiveness,selflessness and brotherliness.We should be genuine,speaking the truth with one another so the 9th assembly can achieve more.
“Speaker please spend the first few months in the 9th Assembly to identify the inherent talents of people and make good use of it so that we can forge ahead,let’s shut this attitude of ours now,as we should have achieved more by now.” Agunbiade reiterated.
The Deputy Speaker Eshilokun in his own view counseled the Speaker to do much of listening and to also let his good works be visible to all.
“Listen more and as much as you say God knows I am doing good,let men see you doing good as well”.
One of the Amazon’s of the 8th Assembly,Hon Adefunmilayo Tejuosho who represents Mushin Constituency 1 for 16 years also corroborated the views of many as she was fortunate to have started same time with Obasa,noted that Obasa’s emergence as speaker bemused her,knowing well that he is somebody who right from time always minds his own business and really not a team player, as he usually comes late to seatings and hardly stays long before taking his leave.
She said,she had the fear that he might not care much about the other lawmakers concerns, having been a ‘mind your own business’ character in time past.
Melodrama
Hon. Adebayo Osinowo of Kosofe constituency I who is referred to as the ‘Stabilizer’ of the house but has been electorally elevated to the Senate as a Senator -elect of the federal republic of Nigeria and would therefore not be much around to afford them the needed witty sayings,wisdom and guide to navigate the stormy gales of politics,in what appears a fathers last counsel to his wards,reenacted the stance of the National Leader Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on the need to respect constituted authorities.
” God himself would never make anything he cannot destroy,so also our leaders in the party, Mr.Speaker we did not pick you because you fiddle your phones or change the channel of your TV set but because of your loyalty.
“There is a need for decent respect to the opinions of your followers,leaders will not promote whoever they cannot destroy, obey your leaders.”
Rt.Hon.Mudashiru Obasa who in his wisdom did the unprecedented,he refused to leave anything to chance and luck as he announced that the valedictory programme will come up on Thursday while the inauguration of the 9th assembly is tentatively slated for Friday 7th of June, at the last seating held on Monday 3rd day in June,pundits however are of the view that if procedures were to have been followed the speaker ought to allow the Clerk take charge pending the time of proclamation of the 9th assembly, they opined that the Speaker was either afraid of the unknown or not confident in the administrative arm of the legislature as it is presently constituted.
At the valedictory session also,when the 8th assembly was brought to a halt at about 9pm,the Majority Leader tried to move the motion for adjournment twice but the Speaker interjected by saying there was no fixed day yet, but the majority maintained that a particular date need be fixed just to give room for proper process of transition,which the Speaker objected to force down his thought down the throat of all.
As the case stands many ‘bootlicking honourables’ were of the view that they need massage the ego of the supposed to be reelected Speaker Obasa,so they affirmed that he is the next choice,while others rather maintain the neutral ground while they await directives from the oracle.
However, that same night information from reliable source made it clear that Obasa may likely not be favoured as before,the confidential source tip the Chief Whip Hon.Rotimi Abiru representing Somolu constituency 2 for the job.
The 9th Assembly is most likely to reveal a lot about the undoings of the 8th assembly,by the assemblymen would have to contend with the self willed mien of Obasa if he returns.







			
			Post Views: 
			50