There are indications that President Muhammadu Buhari may be considering Tony Elumelu, President of Tony Elumelu Foundation, and former Group Managing Director of UBA, for ministerial appointment in his search for professionals to help in rebuilding the Nigerian economy under his leadership in the next four years, National Daily reports.
President Buhari had penultimate week held consultative meeting with Elumelu at the State House, Abuja, for discussion on the Nigerian economy, seeking professorial ideas on the revamping of the ailing economy.
Since the meeting between President Buhari and Tony Elumelu at the Presidential Villa, the Founder of Tony Elumelu Foundation which has been spending millions of dollars empowering young entrepreneurs across the African continent, has occupied a prominent space on the register of the President and accorded a new status of important personality penciled down for invitation on national activities or events in the country.
National Daily inquiry revealed that since the meeting between President Buhari and Elumelu, at the Aso Rock, Elumelu has not missed out on any invitation from the Presidency for national ceremony. He featured prominently in the two notable national events since the meeting. The events include the May 29 inauguration of the President in Abuja and the June 12 Democracy Day anniversary in Abuja.
ALSO READ: Buhari, Tinubu Cold War deepens over Ambode’s ministerial appointment
Presidency sources disclosed to National Daily that President Buhari was highly impressed with the ability of Elumelu to mobilize billions of dollars to empower young entrepreneurs across the African continent continent through his Foundation. The President had, therefore, solicited that Elumelu brigs the entrepreneurial leadership into the government to help develop the economy broader.
The Presidency source also told National Daily that President Buhari may be deviating from the traditional political patronage of appointing party stakeholders into the cabinet in reward of their support during the elections. The President was said to be disappointed with the practice which in the four years of his tenure failed to give the country’s economy any direction.
The Presidency source maintained that President Buhari is considering Elumelu for a prominent role in the Federal Cabinet between ministerial and advisory positions.
Some other professionals were identified to be on the President’s consideration list for cabinet appointments. National Daily will serve you with further developments in subsequent reports.

			
			Post Views: 
			654