– The Daily Express, say that Neymar has turned out Real Madrid because he wants to join Barcelona.
– According to Cadena SER, Coutinho has told Barcelona that he wishes to leave. The Sun, claim that United are preparing an offer of 90 million euros.
– Sky Italia speak of Barcelona’s interest in Buffon, though MARCA sources hold that there is no such intent.
– Djene is wanted by Everton and Arsenal after a fine season with Getafe.
21:00. Adrien Rabiot could remain at PSG in a shock twist due to the return of Leonardo to the sporting director position, according to Le10Sport.
20:10 Arsenal have announced the release of Son Bramall, Cech, Gilmour, Lichtsteiner, Pleguezuelo, Ramsey and Welbeck from the club.
4.682 personas están hablando de esto
19:20. Milan are looking for a replacement for Donnarumma, with the sale of the young goalkeeper expected in order to meet FFP requirements. Manchester United and PSG are keen on the 50-million-euro-rated star.
19:00 In an interview with Manchester City TV, Pep Guardiola ended any rumours linking him with Juventus: “I am one of yours. “There’s no better place to work than England. There’s no better place to do your job as a manager,” he said.
18:10 Sarri has defended himself in an interview with Vanity Fair, over Napoli fans calling him a ‘traitor’ after being linked with a move to Juventus: “I am not a traitor (if I end up at JuventusI have always defended the interests of the collective over the individual”.
17:55 According to Calciomercato.com, Juventus have met with the agent of Roma teenager Zaniolo. The Old Lady could offer Perin, Cuadrado or Higuain as part of the move.
17:25. Real Sociedad target Alexander Isak could be available for 10 million euros, say L’Equipe. Dortmund would be willing to sell the striker, who stands at 1.90m and was on loan at Willem II last season.
16:45. According to the Daily Mirror, Neymar wants a return to Barcelona. The Brazilian has apparently rejected a move to Real Madrid in favour of the Camp Nou.
16:30. Fulham will not sign Schurrle on a permanent deal and thus he will return to Dortmund, but Lazio are keen to take him directly to Serie A, according to Gazzetta.it.
16:00. Coutinho has asked Barcelona to leave the club. according to Cadena SER. He is hoping for a return to the Premier League and Manchester United and Chelsea are both interested, as well as PSG. The Sun are reporting that United are ready to offer 90 million euros.
15:45. Paulo Fonseca will be the new coach of Roma. It is being reported in Italy that he will pay his own release fee to leave Shakhtar Donetsk, before signing a two-year contract with the Giallorossi with the option of a third.
15:10. Napoli have confirmed the signing of Giovanni Di Lorenzo from Empoli. The 25-year-old can play at right-back and centre-back.
14:50. According to Record, Raul de Tomas could be in line for a move to Benfica. Real Madrid would be willing to let him go for a fee of 35 million euros.
13:54. Everton have announced that Ashley Williams will leave the club when his contract expires on June 30.
13:37. Alberto Moreno has spoken in glowing terms about a potential return to Sevilla. “It would be nice to go home and enjoy the supporters again,” he told ABC.
13:00. Atletico Madrid will make signing Athletico Paranaense left-back Renan Lodi a priority this summer, according to Mundo Deportivo. The 21-year-old would cost around 25 million euros.
12:47. The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) announced on Friday that Chelsea have filed an appeal against FIFA after being hit with a transfer ban.
12:30. Manchester United and Manchester City have both been linked with Leicester City centre-back Harry Maguire, and, according to The Daily Express, the Englishman has been told that he can leave the club, so long as someone pays them 96 million euros.
1211. Real Madrid will announce the signing of Eden Hazard in the coming hours. The Belgian will sign a five-year deal, and the agreement between the two sides – Madrid and Chelsea – is practically closed. The fee will be 100 million euros plus variables. (The eventually announced it)
11:52. Getafe defender Djene Dakonam has two suitors in the Premier League: Arsenal and Everton. Angel Torres, Getafe’s president, would allow him to leave for 35 million euros.
11:35. Despite the reports of Gianluigi Buffon to Barcelona, MARCA have been informed that the Italian goalkeeper is not in their plans.
11:18. Ruben Sobrino only joined Valencia in the January transfer window, but he looks set to move on again. He could go to the Premier League or Bundesliga.
10: 59. Real Madrid want to accelerate their departures, following the arrivals of Rodrygo Goes, Eder Militao and Luka Jovic. Eden Hazard and Ferland Mendy are soon to follow, so some current Madrid players will naturally have to move on.
10:38. Manchester United are hoping to sign Napoli centre-back Kalidou Koulibaly, and The Daily Express claims that the Red Devils opened negotiations with a 95 million euro offer. This was rejected by Napoli as they hope to receive a world record fee for a defender: 150 million euros.
10:19. Atletico Madrid are keen to hold onto Alvaro Morata on a permanent basis, but they have asked Chelsea if they can pay the 55 million euro fee in a year’s time in order to make other signings this summer, whilst also adhering to FFP rules.
9:59. There are three English sides after Stuttgart centre-back Ozan Kabak, who brings together three components that are rare to see together these days: young, good and cheap. The Daily Express report that the 19-year-old is available for around 15 million euros, and he is being tracked by Arsenal, Tottenham Hotspur and Manchester United. Atletico Madrid have been linked with a move for Kabak in the past.
9:30. Gianluigi Buffon has been linked with a move to Barcelona by Sky Italia. The same outlet reports that the Blaugrana have contacted the 41-year-old, who will become a free agent when his contract with Paris Saint-Germain comes to a close on June 30. Buffon would replace Jasper Cillessen at the Camp Nou.

			
			Post Views: 
			58