Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, signing the Y2019 Appropriation Bill into law at Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja on Monday, June 3, 2019. With him: Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat (2nd left); Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola (left) and Chairman, House Committee on Appropriation, Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu (right).
        
 


Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State on Monday signed the 2019 Appropriation Bill containing a total budget of N873,532,460,725 into law.
In a statement on Monday sent to National Daily, it was noted that the 2019 budget of N873,532,460,725 has 55 per cent capital expenditure and 45 per cent recurrent expenditure.
The sum of N393,841,387 was indicated to be allocated for recurrent expenditure while N479,691,730,705 is allocated to capital expenditure.
Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Chairman, House Committee on Appropriation, Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu; Chairman, House Committee on Finance, Hon. Yinka Ogundimu; Chief of Staff to the Governor, Mr. Tayo Ayinde during the signing of the Y2019 Appropriation bill and three others into law at Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja on Monday, June 3, 2019.
National Daily gathered from the statement that the governor, after signing the bill, commended the Lagos State House of Assembly for passage of the bill, adding that his administration can take off with implementation.
“I want to thank you on behalf of Lagosians. We will ensure speedy implementation of the bill by ensuring a quick distribution to all ministries and agencies so that Lagosians can enjoy the full benefits of it,” the governor promised.
L-R: Lagos State Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola; Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat; Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Chairman, House Committee on Establishment, Training and Pensions, Hon. Moji Meranda and Chief of Staff to the Governor, Mr. Tayo Ayinde during the signing of the Y2019 Appropriation bill and three others into law at Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja on Monday, June 3, 2019.
He expressed appreciation and applauded the efforts of the Lagos State House of Assembly in passing this law and three others which he assented to, describing them as laws to put the state on the path of progress.
While presenting the appropriation bill, Chairman House Committee on Appropriation, Honourable Gbolahan Yishau, who represented the Speaker, Lagos House of Assembly, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, said the budget would help the state government to handle some sensitive issues and consolidate on the gains of democracy in Lagos State
Sanwo-Olu also signed into law the Domestic Staff Service Provider Bill.
The law, according to Hon. Moji Meranda, would make it mandatory for providers of domestic staff to register with the state government.
“The government would be able to collect and collate data of domestic staff in the State, monitor and control activities of domestic staff service providers, give access to their premises, sanction the providers and renew their certificates.
L-R: Lagos State Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola; Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat; Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu; members of the State House of Assembly, Hon. Moji Meranda; Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu; Hon. Yinka Ogundimu and Chief of Staff to the Governor, Mr. Tayo Ayinde during the signing of the Y2019 Appropriation bill and three others into law at Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja on Monday, June 3, 2019.
“This law will help to protect lives of all Lagosians. The government would be able to do background check on domestic staff being employed so that people can have confidence in who they are employing,” she said.
Also signed into law was the bill establishing the Lagos Neighbourhood Watch Agency. The law enables the Lagos Neighbourhood Service Corps to assist security agencies in providing safety in the state.
The Lagos State House of Assembly Service Commission amended bill was also signed into law by the governor.
According to the Chairman, House Committee on Finance, Hon. Yinka Ogundimu, the law would extend the tenure of the chairman of the commission to five years as well as allowing staff of the House of Assembly to enjoy welfare benefits enjoyed by other staff of the state government.

			
			Post Views: 
			84