Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has described as needless the misinterpretation of his address to some young Nigerians in New York on the issues of insecurity in Nigeria by some groups, including the Yoruba Pan socio-political group, Afenifere.

Recall that the Afenifere had berated Professor Osinbajo over his statement that the ongoing insecurity in the country particularly kidnapping and banditry were being exaggerated.

The group stressed that it does not reflect truthfulness on the part of the Vice-President as Yorubaland is still under siege as well as the continued traumatization of the people by Fulani herdsmen/kidnappers/militia all across the six states in the zone as well as Kwara and Kogi States.

But his Spokesperson, Laolu Akande, on Wednesday said he had seen some of the misleading reports and the subsequent reactions of some group including a faction of Afenifere.

He said that the current wave of the menace in the country will yield a more secure nation.

According to him, “a closer reading of what the VP said would have avoided some of needless the interpretations we have heard.”

Listing four critical points made by the Vice President, Akande explained that the VP made it clear that, “indeed the kidnappings going on where they do, are a concern to the government.

Besides, he added that, “the FG is using technology and tracking gadgets to curtail the situation.”
ALSO READ: Afenifere berates Osinbajo over statement on insecurity
Prof Osinbajo explained that, “the kidnappers are engaged in criminal conduct and with consequences enforced for such economic crimes, the kidnappers would stop.”

Finally, the VP assured Nigerians both home and abroad that “the FG is on top of the situation and that the problem of kidnapping is not unsurmountable.”

He quoted the president thus; “the problem is not as massive that it cannot be solved and the FG working with the States would solve it soon and make life more secure and comfortable for Nigeria.”

According to Akande, these are the things the VP said and the record is there, adding that, “Any other interpretation is not only inaccurate but ought to be ignored.”

He insisted that, “Trying to latch on an inaccurate headline to attack the Vice President is not very useful, it only distorts and distracts from the work and our country needs all hands on deck to sort out our issues.”







			
			Post Views: 
			366