Apple cider vinegar is a type of vinegar made from ripe, freshly crushed, apples. The apples are fermented and passed through a rigorous process to develop the final vinegar product.

The impressive health benefits of apple cider vinegar include its ability to regulate blood sugar levels, boost weight loss, improve gut health, lower cholesterol levels, aid in detoxification, and enhance skin health.

It also speeds up metabolism and provides relief from high blood pressure, inflammation, pain, diarrhea, depression, and asthma.

Apple cider vinegar is an excellent therapy for losing excess weight. It works by making the body burn all the unwanted calories and getting the body’s metabolism working at its best.

According to a study published by a team of Japanese researchers in the Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Biochemistry journal, acetic acid, which is the main component in it, can help in weight loss since it targets body fat.



The dietary fiber present in apple cider vinegar is extremely beneficial for maintaining proper blood glucose levels. According to a research report published by Dr. Andrea M. White, Department of Nutrition, Arizona State University, the USA in the American Diabetes Association Journal, two tablespoons of diluted apple cider vinegar can reduce fasting blood sugar levels.

Apple cider vinegar may also significantly improve insulin sensitivity in those with either insulin resistance or type 2 diabetes.

The vinegar contains acetic acid, along with chromogenic acid, that is effective in reducing the LDL (bad) cholesterol levels and increasing the HDL (good) cholesterol levels, thereby protecting the cardiovascular system.

Dr. Meir J Stampfer, Dr JoAnn E Manson et.al, of Department of Nutrition, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, USA, published a study in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition that showed that women who ate vinegar-based salad dressings had fewer chances of developing a heart disease.

Balancing your body’s pH levels is imperative to maintain healthy skin, and apple cider vinegar can do wonders for your skin because of its moderate alkaline levels.

The pH level of the apple cider vinegar is similar to the pH level of the protective acid mantle of the skin. An apple cider vinegar rinse can help restore the glow of the skin, restricts the dilation of skin pores, keeps your skin from becoming too oily or too dry by balancing the production of sebum, and improves the circulation of nutrients.

The arthritic condition of inflamed joints is due to the accumulation of toxic waste in the body. Natural apple cider vinegar can relieve pain in the joints and also curb the dangerous progress of the arthritic condition. However, there are no scientific studies that support this claim.

The pectin content in the vinegar helps treat diarrhea symptoms by forming bulk fibrous matter. The pectin also forms a protective coat for soothing the lining of the colon. Some say this miracle tonic can give relief as early as twenty minutes. So, 2 tablespoons of organic apple cider vinegar diluted in 8 ounces of warm water, three times a day, is a suggested remedy.

Dr. Carol S. Johnston, Department of Nutrition, Arizona State University, USA, published a research paper in which he mentioned that this health tonic may aid in neutralizing the free radicals that have the potential to form cancerous growths.

The beta-carotene content acts as an antioxidant and effectively neutralizes the free radicals formed through oxidation. The free radicals are harmful bodies that could cause major damage to blood cells.












			
			Post Views: 
			181