The Independent Corrupt Practice and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), has listed the former Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, as next on line for prosecution over allegations misappropriation of N2.5 billion Federal Government Digital Switch-Over (DSO) programme. The ICPC disclosed that findings from investigations in the prosecution of the Director General of the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), Ishaq Modibbo Kawu, provided information for inviting the former Minister of Information and Culture to appear before a Federal High Court, Abuja, to explain his role in the alleged misappropriation of N2.5 billion Federal Government Digital Switch-Over (DSO) programme.
National Daily learned that ICPC was of the view that revelations made by the NBC DG exposed the former minister to the point that there is no hiding place for him.
National Daily further learned that the spokesman of the Independent Corrupt Practice and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Rasheedat Okoduwa, in a statement, affirmed that the need for Lai Mohammed to appear in court was exposed by the Director General of the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), Ishaq Modibbo Kawu, who is being prosecuting for alleged abuse of office and money laundering.
National Daily, accordingly, gathered that ICPC is prosecuting Kawu, Lucky Omoluwa and Dipo Onifade, the Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of Pinnacle Communications Limited, in a 12-count charge before Justice Folashade Ogunbanjo-Giwa if the Federal High Court, Abuja. The NBC Director General is being accused of misleading Lai Mohammed into approving public funds to a private company.
It was acknowledged that Lai Mohammed had earlier admitted in a statement to the Commission that he was misled by Kawu into approving the funds for seed grant. This was said to have been admitted in evidence in court by a witness from ICPC, Osanato Olugbemi.
It was noted that Olugbemi, led in evidence by counsel to ICPC, Henry Emore, narrated to the court that the payment of N2.5 billion from NBC to Pinnacle Communications Limited, as seed grant was suspicious because ICPC found through its investigations that only government owned company was approved to benefit from the grant according to the White Paper.
ICPC had during investigations discovered that a government White Paper that governs the execution of the DSO programme was allegedly flouted by the head of NBC, which subsequently indicted the information Minister.
It was said to be revealed before the court that the minute from an NBC emergency board management meeting where issues of carriage fees owed Pinnacle and not seed grant was discussed showed that the processes leading to the final payment of the M2.5 billion to the private company were shrouded in secrecy.
Olugbemi had told the court that 47 suspicious transactions were originated by the Chairman of Pinnacle Communications, Omoluwa, immediately after the receipt of the funds on June 2, 2017.
The transactions were identified to include payment of N363 million to Idowu Olatunde, N274.4 million to James Segun and N127 million to Dipo Onifade, Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the company.
It was stated before the court that ICPC investigation, Omoluwa declined to clarify the payments made to Olatunde and James in inquiry by ICPC. However, Onifade admitted that he received the N127 million as legal fees he rendered to Pinnacle Communications Limited.
A Bureau de Change operator, Salisu Mamman Daura, was said to have admitted in witness before the court that he was paid N167 million in two installments of N97 million and N70 million from Pinnacle Communications Limited.
Daura had explained that the money were converted into $265, 000 and $195, 735 at the rate of N360 to an American dollar, and handed in cash to one Alhaji Sabo, on behalf of Pinnacle Communications.
Counsel to the accused persons, Alex Iziyon (SAN), A Yusuf and A. V. Etuwewe for Omoluwa, Onifade, Kawu and Pinnacle Communications, cross-examined the two witnesses before the matter was adjourned to July 1, 2019 for continuation of trial and ruling on two pending motions by the trial judge.
 








			
			Post Views: 
			88