President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday visited  Batsari Local Government Area in Katsina State, to meet some of the Internally Displayed Persons in the state.
During the visit, he vowed to bring to justice, those involved in banditry and other crimes across the country.
He also renewed his government’s determination to fight insecurity and other challenges facing the country.
President  Buhari made the pledge when he met 1,050 IDPs, selected from the affected eight Local Government Areas of the state, bordering Ruga Forest.
He maintained that those who engage in kidnapping and maiming and still called on God were not true faithful.
He declared, “It is either they don’t know God or disagree with Him. What brought me here is to condole with you over the recent banditry attacks affecting not only you but all of us. I have nothing to add to what the Emir had already spoken extensively about, but what all leaders should do right is to ensure justice.
“I assure you that we sleep and wake-up with the sad moments of banditry and kidnapping activities in the state and country. By the Grace of God, we will use soldiers, police and other public servants to end banditry.
“All those whose activity is to kill people saying “Allahu Akbar” are lying because God is not wicked. You can’t carry bomb or gun, sword or knife to go and kill innocent somebody and say “Allahu Akbar”. This implies that you either don’t believe in God or you don’t know what you are saying.
“There is a popular Hausa adage which says it’s the rat in the house that tells the rat outside that there is fish in the house, so within yourselves, your neighbours and even your relatives there are informants.”
Buhari pleaded with people to exercise patience with the government in its current efforts at tackling insecurity.
Governor Aminu Masari had earlier in his address, said that the amnesty and offer of dialogue granted repentant bandits by the North West Governors, along with other strategies put in place have started yielding good results.


			
			Post Views: 
			115