Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State on Monday suffered first setback in his administration of the state since inauguration on May 29, 2019. National Daily learned that the first setback Governor Sanwo-Olu encountered unfortunately came from the unit of government he had worked hard to deepen harmonious inter-governmental relations since inauguration, the Lagos State House of Assembly.
The state legislature had on Monday rejected three of 38 nominees the governor presented to the lawmakers toscreen and confirm for appointment into the State ExecutiveCouncil;, thus, confirming 35 of the nominees submitted for appointment as commissioners and special advisers.
The three nominees rejected by the House were identified to include Ms Adekemi Ajayi-Bembe, Obafemi George and Prince Olanrewaju Sanusi.
Reports indicated that the 16-man ad hoc committee for the screening of the nominees provided the information that guided to the decision on the rejection of the three nominees which were presented at the plenary for debate and adoption by the whole House on Monday.
It was narrated that the committee commenced screening of the first batch of nominees on August 1 which consisted of 25 persons; and completed the screening on August 3.
The committee further commenced the screening of the second batch of the nominees on August 15, rounding up on August 16 before the presentation of report on Monday, August 19.
It was highlighted that the confirmed nominees include: Tunji Bello, Gbolahan Lawal, Wale Ahmed, Mrs. Lola Akande, Prince Olanrewaju Elegushi, Hakeem Fahm, Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf, Mr. Afolabi Ayantayo, Samuel Egube, Mrs. Bolaji Dada, Moruf Akinderu-Fatai, Olusegun Dawodu, Mrs. Solape Hammond, Arch. Kabiru Abdullahi, Olalere Odusote, Aramide Adeyoye.
Others include: Frederick Oladeinde, Olatunbosun Alake, Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN), Prof. Akin Abayomi, Dr. Rabiu Olowo, Dr. Idris Salako, Bonu Solomon Saanu, Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo, and Oluwatoyin Fayinka, Princess Aderemi Adebowale, Mrs. Shulamite Adebolu, Mrs. Toke Benson-Awoyinka, Adetokunbo Wahab, Mrs. Ajibola Ponnle, Mrs. Yetunde Arobieke, and Ms Ruth Olusanya.

			
			Post Views: 
			1,127