Mesut Ozil’s future at Arsenal is in serious doubt after he was snubbed completely by Unai Emery for the trip to Liverpool.
Ozil failed to even make the group who travelled up to Merseyside for their 3-1 defeat at Anfield despite being fully fit.
Boss Unai Emery did not believe the World Cup winner was worth a place in his plans for the biggest match of the season so far for his club.
And that has left 30-year-old Ozil facing up the fact he may have to leave the Emirates if he wants to be playing regular first team football this season.
Now the club’s highest earner (£350,000 or $636k) will be left considering whether he needs to secure a move within the next week or be left in the wilderness on the sidelines.
Meanwhile, Borussia Dortmund’s Jadon Sancho is still being considered for a possible move to Manchester United next season.
The Evening Standard claim Manchester United manager wants the former City youth product to become the club’s top transfer in 10 months’ time when the summer window reopens — and wants to avoid short-term fixes and vanity signings.
The England starlet has now bagged 15 goals in the German top flight aged just 19 years and 151 days.
Sancho signed a £190,000-a-week ($345k) deal at the Signal Iduna Arena 10 days ago to put him in the top ten highest-earning youngsters in world football, with Real Madrid striker Luka Jovic top on £365,000-a-week ($663k).
It’s understood signing Sancho could cost United as much as £100m ($181m), especially if he stars for England at Euro 2020.
Roma are set to make a late £15m ($27m) bid for Liverpool’s out-of-favour defender Dejan Lovren, according to reports in Italy.
The Croatian has been linked with a move to the Giallorossi throughout the summer after falling down the pecking order at Anfield.
The 30-year-old looked set to seal a £23m ($42m) switch to the Italian capital earlier this month, before Roma’s attempt to change the deal to an initial loan ended talks with the Reds.
However, according to local outlet, Corriere dello Sport, Paulo Fonseca’s side are returning for Lovren but are still pushing for a loan with an option to buy.

			
			Post Views: 
			18