The Peoples Democratic Movement candidate in the 2019 general elections has revealed how he reached an agreement with President Muhammadu Buhari to  withdraw the petition he filed at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal.
Pastor Aminchi Habu and PDM had gone before the tribunal seeking to void President Buhari’s re-election on the ground that the party’s logo was excluded on the ballot paper that was used for the presidential election.
However, on July 24 when the Justice Mohammed Garba-led panel was set to commence hearing on the matter, the party, announced its decision to withdraw the matter.
They told the court they found “other alternative ways of seeking redress.”
Briefing newsmen in Abuja on Monday, Pastor Habu said he decided to terminate hearing of the petition, after President Buhari made promises to him, to improve the security situation in Christian dominated regions of the North such as Southern Kaduna.
Buhari also assured him that he would pay more attention to the provision of infrastructure and social amenities to the areas.
According to the candidate, he represented the marginalized and hardworking people of the Northern Christian Community, Middle Belt and Northern Minorities, and his people were mobilized and ready to overwhelmingly vote for him, only to discovered on election day the PDM logo was missing.
But he said since filling his petition, the parties involved have despite the pending petition sought political remedies and solutions to address my concern.
He denied the APC bought him over.
“Most importantly, I have now discovered that the present government of All Progressive Congress led by President Muhammadu Buhari shares my vision and that of my people.
“The reasons for which I decided to contest the February 23 general election of this country is the same vision and zeal which the government of President Muhammadu Buhari operates.”
The clergyman said Instead of leading to tribunal to annul the election, I have decided to work with this government to deliver on its electoral promises and mandate.”
 

			
			Post Views: 
			1,032