t
Pearly Bleuwaters International Consulting Firm has urged firms and schools to adopt technology in order relevant and more efficient in their operations.
The firm, thereby stressed the need for organisations and schools to deploy technology for business growth and continuity.
The firm gave the advice while addressing journalists at a forum organised by NITRA in Lagos at the weekend, said businesses that do not deploy the right technology solutions in today’s digital age, will always plan to fail.
The Chief Executive Officer of the firm, Mr. Victor Oshodi, said businesses fail in the 21st Century because they refused to allow technology to drive the business.
According to him, the world has going digital and every business, including Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) must automate their operations in line with modern technology to align with global trends in business.
Giving insight to some of its technology solutions that address business and organisational needs, the Project Director, Pearly Bleuwaters, Mr. Joseph Ogunleye said the management consulting firm with vast experience in providing intelligent business advice and solutions to businesses in Nigeria and globally, provides unique service solutions to SMEs and corporate organisations based on their needs and challenges.
Speaking on its business expansion and advisory services, Ogunleye said the firm’s Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) solution, which is developed in-house with 100 per cent local content, addresses the issue of big data analytics and that organisations could gather data, analyse such data and use the outcome for on-the-spot business decision.‎“Bleu ERP software is used for both big and small organisations for its centralised approach to business processes. With it, customers can collect, store, manage, and interpret data from various business units. Likewise, ERP is used to automate back-office tasks and streamline cross-departmental workflows. When optimised, the solution can drive efficiency, lower costs and increase profitability. Our ERP software is a suite of applications that helps to manage core business processes,” Ogunleye said.
We develop well-crafted websites, true-to-life business solution software that engage business people successfully and meet today’s business challenges an our clients’ business models, he added.

			
			Post Views: 
			77