The General Officer Commanding (GOC), 2 Division, Nigerian Army, Major General Anthony Omozoje, during a courtesy visit to the Government house, Benin City, commended Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State over the reform he implemented to overhaul the state’s security architecture and commitment to protecting lives and property through proactive policing.
Major General Omozoje remarked that Edo State is strategic to Nigeria’s security architecture, noting that the state accommodates several strategic military establishments.
 
National Daily learned that the GOC thanked the governor for his administration’s support to the Army, noting that since his appointment, he has been visiting formations under his Command, which Edo State falls under.
“I will be here for three days to visit all the unit formations and military establishments within Edo State. The state is very strategic. You can see that by the number of military establishments hosted in Edo State. The state is important in the security architecture of the nation,” the GOC stated.
Governor Obaseki acknowledged that security is top priority for his administration, adding that  is why Edo State government is working closely with security agencies to ensure the security of lives and property.
According to Obaseki, “As a government, we are serious about security because we understand that without the security of lives and property, we can’t achieve our goals of providing for the welfare of the people.
“Our state occupies a strategic position in the country. As such, we host a lot of Army formations. We are grateful that the relationship between the state and the military has been cordial.”
The governor commended the Brigade Commander and the Military for being a formidable part of the state’s security architecture and for supporting the initiative. “The Army has been involved and plays a part in the patrols across the state. They have been cooperative in maintaining peace in the state,” Obaseki said.
The governor assured that his administration will continue to support the Army to discharge its responsibilities, as the state has requested for increased presence of the Army in trouble spots across the state.
“We thank the Chief of Army Staff for his support to Edo State and for bringing the Army Chief of Staff Conference to the state last year,” Obaseki added.
 

			
			PV: 
			0