The former FC Ifeanyi Ubah skipper who had been recovering from a major appendicitis surgery died after food poisoning on Friday night.

A source very close to the player confirmed this to National Daily while narrating the circumstances surrounding his death.

‘Patrick ate beans with his close friend on Monday Evening and Dat same evening he complained of stomach pain then he was rushed to the hospital and was discharged the next day because Doctor’s could not see anything wrong with him after series of Test and scan only for Patrick to start complaining again, this time he was rushed to Ola Hospital where he died Friday night’ the source narrated to DiegwuSports

Patrick Ikeokwu skippers FC Ifeanyi Ubah in the 2017 NPFL season and was a strong presence in the dressing room. Most of his teammates spoke highly of him. Alaekwe Chijioke who now plays for Kano Pillars described him as a leader who he will dearly miss.

“You were my leader, my brother, and my friend. I will miss you and my heart is broken. Rest Ie” Alaekwe told .

Another Former teammate, Charles Okafor was apparently in the dark about the death of the player until he was approached by National Daily to comment on the demise of the player.

I am in shock, I have not spoken to him for a while and I was not even aware he was ill. I am devastated because he had a promising career ahead of him’ said Okafor.

Patrick Ikeokwu started his career at Plateau United before joining Lobi Stars. After an impressive 2016 NPFL season with Lobi Stars, he signed for his hometown club FC Ifeanyi Ubah where he quickly became a fan favorite and was made club captain mid way through the 2017 season.

Unfortunately, he had a severe appendicitis rupture that led to a major operation in 2018. This eventually made the player to miss the entire 2018 season as he was recovery from the surgery.

Ikeokwu did not also feature in the 2019 season because he didn’t have a club after being released by FC Ifeanyi Ubah

			
			Post Views: 
			1,094