In appreciation of her spirit of undying love for the round leather game, particularly the Nigerian football and couple with her humanitarian gestures to the less privildged in the society, the Vice President of Federal Republic of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osinbajo on behalf of the Presidency has recognized and thrown his weight behind Kemi Ogunfuwa for making Nigeria proud, National Daily learnt.


It would be recalled that Kemi Ogunfuwa was the first Nigerian foootball supporters fan that would win individual award of *CAF BEST FAN OF THE YEAR 2018* during Total CAF Women Nation’s Cup held in Ghana.


National Daily gathered that the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osibajo said he was very happy to receive a lady who is making the country proud. She added that the Presidency is happy to be identified with Kemi.


“We’re extremely delighted to host  Ogunfuwa today because she has exhibited ambassadorial figure in Nigerian foootball and particularly the award she won for Nigeria in the last women nation’s cup.

“Kemi, you are truly the daughter of the soil as you are making the nation proud. Your efforts have shown to us that you are truly a patriotic Nigerian and a great Ambassador of this great nation.

Kemi in her usual gorgeous look told journalists at the State house that she felt elated for the reception and a word of assurance from the presidency.

She said “I feel elated for this recognition by the Vice President of Nigeria and I will  not rest on my oars to impact Nigerian football and particularly the less privildged with our ex internationals for support. As we all know we support our national teams on and off the pitch,as we affect them in cheering and welfarism. I have been to the President of the NFF, *Mr Amanju Melvin Pinnick*, a football matriarch, a patriotic Nigerian and mother of all *Mrs, Reverrend Esther Ajayi*, my Kinsmen, *Chief Kunle Soname (Bet9ja)*, Double Chief, *Kessington Adebutu , aka Baba Ijebu* and now, our Vice President who is also from Remo, Ogun State *Professor Yemi Osinbajo*

Ogun State football Icon said her group is not only supporting football alone, but also extend their humanitarian gestures to the less privildged and some indisposed athletes in our dear nation. “With every sense of humility and responsibility, we have been to different motherless homes to touch lives and few of them are Odion Ighalo Orphanage home,Little Saints Orphanage Home, Heart of Gold Children’s hospice, Anthony orphanage home and lots more.


Also this year we went to former Green Eagles GoalKeeper, *Peter Fregene* to drop our token and we are glad to say Mr Femi Otedola, the oil and gas mogul came to his rescue after he saw the videos we did, asking patriotic Nigerians and all football lovers to come to his rescue. This means we’re both off and on the pitch working to make the nation proud” . Kemi clarified her stewardship.





			
			Post Views: 
			103