The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has reacted to the abduction of five pastors of the Redeemed Christian Church of God by unknown gunmen.
The General Overseer of the RCCG, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, announced the abduction of the clerics at the Redeemed Camp along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway.
In a statement signed on Saturday by its Executive Director, Prof. Ishaq Akintola, the group urged Nigerians to pray for the safe return of the Pastors.
“We are deeply distressed by this ugly development. We empathise with Pastor Enoch Adeboye, the General Overseer of the RCCG. We urge Nigerians to join Pastor Adeboye in prayer for the quick and safe return of the kidnapped pastors,’ the statement read.
“Our appeal for prayers is to all Nigerians regardless of religion or tribe. We are one from Adam and Adam was from ordinary sand. It must be humanity first. Let us unite in prayers. A nation that prays together stays together.
“In particular, we beseech Nigerian Muslims who are currently on hajj (pilgrimage) to add the safe return of the five pastors to their prayer points. We appeal to those among them who are already in Makkah to perform a special tawaf (circumambulation of the Ka’abah) and Sa‘y to ask Almighty Allah to intervene in the plight of the pastors. Those who are still in Madinah are urged to offer two rak‘ahs each at the Prophet’s (SAW) mosque for the same purpose.
“In addition, we call on all Muslim Asalatu groups throughout Nigeria to dedicate time to special prayers for the five pastors during their Asalatu sessions tomorrow Sunday 4th August, 2019. They should please pray to Allah to stop the spate of criminality in our country.
“This is not the time for blame game. Those who concentrate on blaming government and the security agencies are chasing shadows. They have missed the substance. The reality is that security is the responsibility of all of us. These kidnappers grew up in some families. This is indubitable evidence of the collapse of family values. Greed has supplanted self-satisfaction and immorality has displaced self-discipline in our homes.
“In our concluding remarks, we affirm that our hearts go to the families of the abducted pastors. We are deeply saddened. We share their fears and trepidations. Nonetheless, we appeal to them all to take heart and to be strong in faith. We are with them every inch of the way. They must not lose hope as the nation prays for them. We are confident that the five pastors will return home unhurt.”

			
			Post Views: 
			289