The lawmaker representing Ikeja Federal constituency, Lagos State, in the National Assembly, and former deputy governorship candidate to late Abubakar Audu, James Abiodun Faleke, have issued strong warning to leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi State, to be cautious not to give the governorship ticket of the party to incumbent Governor Yahaya Bello for the November governorship election in Kogi State. the lawmaker,National Dailylearned, vehemently opposed the nomination of Bello for second term re-election in the state, pointing out the mountain of failures and the tragedy awaiting the state if Bello is returned for a second tenure.
Faleke counseled the State APC leaders to desist from imposing Bello on the party members, advocating that the APC leaders should allow the people to make their choice.
Faleke also questioned Governor Yahaya Bello’s source of riches that made him become millionaire in less than five years of graduation from the university and working in a government agency.
It is, however, unclear whether Faleke would be joining the governorship race for the APC ticket but he has drawn the battle line with Bello to ensure he doesn’t return for a second tenure.
Faleke was cited to have declared in his remark: “The contenders for the 2019 Kogi Governorship race on my mind. I hope the APC will put its thinking caps on to put in a process that will allow the people make the choice of who will lead the state from the Party without compromising honour.
“As it is today, I plead with the Party Leaders to put the interest of the people of the state in mind and end the sufferings of a people.
“Since the 2015abrakadabraprocess that brought in the current Governor of the state, I strongly believe that the whole world and the party leadership are living witnesses to the worst administration of a government in Nigeria.
“I cannot understand the pride of GYB when with all the available resources at his disposal, he CANNOT boast of any meaningful project he has done to alleviate the suffering of the people.
“When opportunity was given to him against the wishes of the people, he was expected to use the tenure to surprise the people in performance and good governance, but the people were so surprised with his lack of knowledge, and interest of the people at heart.
“I was not surprised that he has failed and will fail again because when you look at his background, after school; he served at Revenue Mobilization Commission and rose to level 12, and suddenly became a ‘millionaire’. We should ask ourselves how can a level 12 officer become a millionaire in less than 5 years of graduation if not involved in stealing government funds. 
“Then, he was rewarded with a victory he was never part of. How could he have taken the people into heart? So, he got a licence to steal and steal and steal.
“So, as the very bad tenure moves to final burial, the APC must be watchful not to make same mistake. “When GYB knew that he will be asking for second term from the people, why did he not do what is right with the people? If by any default he gets the party ticket (God  forbids), and wins…”






			
			Post Views: 
			682