Sheikh Muhammad Yakubu, the brother of Sheikh Ibraheem Yakubu El-Zakzaky, said the leader of Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) is not different from Boko Haram’s leader Abubakar Shekau, and the government should not only ban El-Zakzaky sect, but also treat him like a terrorist.
Yakubu is El-Zakzaky’s elder brother—and he is Zaria Branch Chairman of Izalatul Bid’ia wa Ikamatus sunna.
According to him, the Shiite leader is responsible for whatever he is gong through now, because he was warned when he started propagating “his dangerous” Shi’ite doctrine.
“As you may be aware, El-Zakzaky is my blood brother. We were given birth to by the same father. While growing up, before he started this journey into Shi’ism, I didn’t have any close friend apart from him. We did everything together. We studied together in Islamic school,” he told the Nation on the weekend.
“We warned him seriously to desist when he started this Shi’ism ideology. I personally warned him several times, and when he refused, I had to abandon him. So, whatever the authorities might have done to him, he caused it for himself.”
He added that the group is supposed to have been proscribed a long time ago, but the government waited until they are now causing havoc.
“In the entire world, where has the Chief of Army Staff ever been blocked on the way and denied right of passage? Since the time Shi’ites people did that to the Nigerian Chief of Army Staff, they were supposed to have been stopped. But now, the authorities seem to have understood their mission.
“Anywhere the Shi’ites are, they are always a problem. They are the ones that ruined Iraq. They are the ones that ruined Syria, Yemen and Lebanon. All the crises you see in the Middle-East, Shi’ites are responsible for them.
Yakubu said with the group’s violent protests, a government can be toppled.
“The enemies of the country and enemies of the sitting government can take advantage of the Shi’ites protest and overthrow the government.
“I believe the government now understands this secret. What the government has done is very right,” he said.
Islamic groups have been coming up to discredit the Shiites as violent Muslims  the government must clamp down on.
On Tuesday’s, another Shi’ites group said that IMN members are fake Shi’ites, theough El-Zakzaky’s brother described the declaration as hypocritical.
 
“They are liars. All Shi’ites are one,” he said.

			
			Post Views: 
			91