1. Ronaldo out to equal most Champions League titles won by a player

After his impressive Champions League run ended at the quarter final stage last season with Juventus, Cristiano Ronaldo will be desperate to lift the title again this term. Should he help guide the current Serie A champions to continental glory, it will be Ronaldo’s sixth European Cup title. That would bring him level with fellow Madrid legend Paco Gento for the most times a player has lifted the trophy.


2. Messi chasing Ronaldo’s La Liga hat-trick haul

Barcelona star Lionel Messi will be eager to overtake Cristiano Ronaldo’s La Liga record for most hat-tricks this season. Ronaldo bagged 34 across his time with Real Madrid and Messi, currently on 33, has a strong chance of breaking that record over the next nine months with his last treble coming in March this year.



3. Guardiola set to overtake Mourinho for fastest Premier League century

Two more rivals and another chance for one to stake their claim over the other with Pep Guardiola poised to post 100 Premier League wins in the fewest number of matches for a manager. The record is currently held by Jose Mourinho, who brought up the league century after 142 games. Guardiola, as it stands, boasts 88 wins from 115 matches meaning he should set a new record barring an unlikely winless spell with Manchester City.


4. Manchester City could join United for most consecutive Premier League titles

After defending their Premier League crown last season, Manchester City would join Manchester United as the only other club top to win the competition for three consecutive campaigns if they can finish first again this season. The Red Devils have achieved the feat twice between 1999-2001 and 2007-2009, with City no doubt keen to hijack their rivals’ milestone.

5. Dani Alves Could further extend his numbers of lifted trophies this season


6. Aguero eyeing multiple Premier League scoring records

Manchester City look set to guide another individual to a new record this season with star striker Sergio Aguero looking to raise the bar for most Premier League hat-tricks while also becoming the highest non-English goalscorer.

Aguero’s current tally of 11 Premier League hat-tricks has him level for the most with Alan Shearer, meaning one more will put him in a league of his own.

The Argentine striker is also now just 10 goals shy of Thierry Henry’s record of most Premier League goals for a foreign player. Henry struck 175 times during his career with Aguero on 165 goals. Considering the Argentine has scored over 20 goals in his past five Premier League seasons, it’s fairly safe to say he should break the record over the coming months.


7. Buffon on cusp of making the most Serie A appearances

After sealing his return to Italy with Juventus, Gianluigi Buffon is close to setting a new record for most Serie A appearances by a player. Paolo Maldini currently holds the record with 647 Serie A games and Buffon is not far behind on 640. As Juve’s second-choice goalkeeper this season, however, Buffon is no certainty to break this record.


8. Ronaldo chasing Golden Boot trifecta

After claiming Golden Boots in the Premier League and La Liga, Cristiano Ronaldo is out to become the only player to win the award in Serie A as well to complete an impressive hat-trick. The current Juventus attacker finished fourth in the goal-scoring standings last season, just five goals shy of winner Fabio Quagliarella.



9. Simeone closing in on impressive La Liga feat

Atletico Madrid manager Diego Simeone could become just the second coach to claim 200 La Liga wins for a single team. The Argentine has chalked up 180 victories in Spain to date and is within touching distance of joining Miguel Munoz as the only other manager to claim 200 La Liga wins with one club.



10. La Liga Golden Boot record awaiting Messi

Having last season claimed his sixth La Liga Golden Boot, or Pichichi as its known in Spain, Messi equalled the record previously held by Athletic Bilbao legend Telmo Zarra. Should Messi bag another this season, he’d become the first player ever to claim seven. As it stands, the Argentine has won the Pichichi for the past three seasons and will take some serious stopping this campaign.

11. Joaquin to inherit unwanted La Liga feat
Real Betis’ Joaquin is set to become the player with the most defeats in La Liga history this season. The veteran winger is just six losses shy of Jose Ramon Esnaola’s record of 178 defeats in the Spanish top-flight. Considering Betis lost 16 times last season, Joaquin will struggle to avoid the milestone should he play regularly.


12. PSG’s incredible goal-scoring run
Current Ligue 1 champions PSG are poised to break Racing Club de France’s domestic record for scoring in 40 straight league games. PSG have netted in 39 straight Ligue 1 matches to date and are on the cusp of adding a fresh record to their collection.


13. Neuer to join elite Bundesliga winner’s circle

Bayern Munich keeper Manuel Neuer is just six wins shy of becoming the fourth player to bring up 250 Bundesliga victories. As it stands, only Oliver Kahn (310), Manfred Kaltz (291) and Philipp Lahm (250) have brought up the milestone and Neuer is well on his way to setting a possible new record should he stay in Germany for a few more seasons. Claudio Pizarro could also join the 250 Bundesliga wins’ club this season and like Neuer currently has 244 victories to his name.



14. Lewandowski looking to fire his way into history

Should Robert Lewandowski score in Bayern’s first game of the new Bundesliga season, he’ll become the first player to strike in round one for five consecutive campaigns.

A longer-term target for the Polish striker this season, however, will be to become the third highest goalscorer in Bundesliga history. Lewandowski currently has 202 goals to his name and needs to reach 221 to surpass Josef Heynckes and seal his place on an impressive podium alongside Gerd Muller (365) and Klaus Fischer (268).


15. Herrmann to become most substituted player in the Bundesliga

Among the records you don’t want, to become the most substituted player is surely one of them. Patrick Herrmann is on the cusp of becoming the Bundesliga’s most replaced player having been taken off in 137 games, just three shy of Halil Altintop’s record of 140. Interestingly, Hermann has made 245 Bundesliga appearances overall, meaning he’s been hooked in more than half of the games he’s played.




			
			Post Views: 
			126