Sen. Ibrahim Shekarau just railed at Rivers Governor Nwesom Wike over the allegation the state government demolished the Rainbow City Central Mosque, Trans Amadi—because Wike claimed much earlier Rivers is a Christian state.
The former Kano governor described the action as barbaric, and asked Nigerians to take action.
“Muslims and other right-thinking and peace-loving citizens of this country should come together to condemn, in strongest terms, this irresponsible, reckless, rabble-rousing governor whose apparent aim is to ignite a religious conflagration, the kind of which has never been seen in recent times,” he wrote in a statement on Friday.
According to him, if a Muslim governor were to come out openly and declare his state a “Muslim State” and proceed to demolish a church for any reason, all hell would have since broken loose in Nigeria.
“Sections of the Christian community would have since rushed to the “international community” and even the United Nations seeking protection against Muslims,”the Kano Central senator said.
He added that no leader in his right senses would contemplate stoking these embers of discord in a country so religiously, ethnically and regionally charged as Nigeria.
“Nigeria belongs to all, and no state in Nigeria could claim to be mono religious. It only takes a responsible leadership to carry everybody along.”
He cited his administration as an example, when between 2003 and 2011, he instituted Shariah in Kano.
”But we neither became power-drunk to demolish churches nor disregarded the provisions of section 10 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to declare Kano an Islamic State.”
“Our fair dealings with every section of the community earned us commendation, even from Kano State Chapter and National Body of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), at different occasions.”
Among the Cristian leaders  who worked with him were Mr. Tala Ilo from Bayelsa State and Mr. Chris Chibuzor Azuka from Anambra State, (both, born-again Christians) who were special advisers in his administration.
He said Wike’s claim that Rivers is a Christian State is  a “pathological lie”, meaning that not only are the people of Rivers State 100% Christians, but Muslims and adherents of other religions from other parts of Nigeria cannot make Rivers State their home.”
The Muslim Rights Concern, an advocacy group, has also condemned the governor for allegedly ordering the demolition. Wike denied this, though.
Ustaz Yahaya Imam Abdullahi, an Islamic cleric in the state, also defended the governor, saying there was demolition only on government property, and it was not a current issue.

			
			Post Views: 
			3,366