National Daily learnt from the reports made available by the Evening Standard that Manchester
United are making a late move to sign Christian Eriksen as they fear another offer from Real
Madrid for Paul Pogba.
The Dane is a player who has been on the club’s radar for quite some time, after establishing
himself as one of the best midfielders in the Premier League.
Eriksen has been patiently waiting for an offer to leave north London this summer, after
expressing his desire for a new challenge.
But the 27-year-old is yet to receive an escape route until now.
According to the Evening Standard, Manchester United have made a late surge for the Eriksen
The decision means they will face a race against the clock to get a deal completed with just over
48 hours until the transfer window closes.
It’s believed that the Old Trafford side are looking to pursue Eriksen in fear that Real Madrid
could make a second move for Paul Pogba.
Los Blancos saw a bid of £27.6million plus James Rodriguez rejected for the Frenchman over
the weekend.
The offer indicates that the World Cup winner is still at the forefront of Real Madrid’s transfer
plans.
They were closing in on the signing of Donny van de Beek from Ajax but that is currently being
held up in case they can sign Pogba.
It’s been clear since the start of the summer that if given the chance to move to the Bernabeu,
Pogba would like to.
He claimed while on a business venture with Adidas in Tokyo that it was time for a new
challenge but talk of an exit has since died down.
But speculation reignited when Pogba was left in Manchester for last weekend’s friendly with
AC Milan.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was insistent that his absence was due to a back spasm, where as reports
from El Chiringuito TV claimed he was not injured but in fact trying to force through a move.
Zinedine Zidane wants to bring his compatriot to the Spanish capital but is under a restricted
budget following a heavy summer of spending.
However a central midfielder is high on their list of priorities as they look to improve their squad
and topple Barcelona in La Liga.
The board reportedly favour a move for Eriksen because he’s seen as more economically
affordable, but Zidane isn’t keen on the Tottenham midfielder.

			
			Post Views: 
			2,313