The positivity around Manchester United was stunted a little following the draw at Wolves last time out but pundits have started bearing their minds as the Red Devils take on Crystal Palace at Old Trafford on Saturday in the Premier League game.
 
Recall that United began the new Premier League campaign with a bang as they battered Chelsea 4-0 at Old Trafford only for the team to play a 1-1 draw with Wolves away.
 
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s men looked set for success at Wolves last Monday after Anthony Martial fired home the opener but the hosts hit back through Ruben Neves, before Paul Pogba’s late penalty was saved.
 
Palace are next up for United as they look to win their second consecutive home match of the new season and three prominent pundits are also predicting wins for Solskjaer’s team.
 
“United will still be ruing Paul Pogba’s second-half penalty miss at Molineux on Monday evening, but I am confident Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side will return to winning ways against a Palace side who have yet to score so far this season,” former Liverpool and United striker Michael Owen, who has predicted a United win, explained in his BetVictor blog .
 
“United have genuine pace in their side and I believe they will have too much quality for an Eagles side who have created very little in their two games so far this term.”
 
Fellow Liverpool great Mark Lawrenson has backed United to win 2-0, while Arsenal legend Charlie Nicholas has predicted a 3-1 victory for tomorrow’s hosts.
 
“Roy Hodgson’s team are in danger of becoming known as ‘Crystal Palace nil’. It is a real worry for them – where are their goals going to come from? Until the January transfer window comes round, I think they will really struggle,” Lawrenson told the BBC.
 
“People were getting excited after Manchester United beat Chelsea on the opening weekend but you could see that they are going to have problems over the course of the season. But I will go for a routine win at Old Trafford.”
 
Nicholas, who speaking to Sky Sports , added: “Everyone was getting excited about Manchester United after the 4-0 win over Chelsea but they got a bit of a reality check in the second half on Monday Night Football at Wolves, who are a good side.
“United have pace up front with Anthony Martial, Marcus Rashford and Jesse Lingard, but are pretty average in midfield. Scott McTominay is a challenge physically but not a great forward passer and at the back, Harry Maguire will improve, but it will take him time.
 
“I am not surprised they spent £50m on Aaron Wan-Bissaka but he is young and wants to get forward, which could see spaces in defence. They still have some issues to sort, but Palace have not started well at all.”
 
 

			
			Post Views: 
			244