The United States Embassy in Nigeria has announced an increase in the price of visa for Nigerians with effect from Thursday in retaliation to increased cost of obtaining Nigeria visa by its citizens.
According to a statement by the embassy, US law required US visa fees and validity periods to be based on the treatment afforded to US citizens by foreign governments, insofar as possible, saying that visa issuance fees were implemented under the principle of reciprocity: when a foreign government imposed additional visa fees on US citizens, the United States would impose reciprocal fees on citizens of that country for similar types of visas.
According to a statement from the US Embassy, “effective worldwide on August 29, Nigerian citizens will be required to pay a visa issuance fee, or reciprocity fee, for all approved applications for non-immigrant visas in B, F, H1B, I, L, and R visa classifications.”
It said the reciprocity fee would be charged in addition to the non-immigrant visa application fee, also known as the MRV fee, which all applicants pay at the time of application, adding that Nigerian citizens whose applications for a non-immigrant visa were denied would not be charged the new reciprocity fee.
With the announcement, Nigerians applying for tourism, student and business visas will not only pay the N59, 200 fee but will have to pay an extra $110 (N40, 700) after the visa has been issued o them bringing the total cost to N99, 900.
However, applicants who are denied visas would not need to pay the extra N40, 700.
Applicants seeking the L1 Visa (work permit) will pay an extra N112, 100 if given visas while those applying for H4 Visa (dependency/spousal) will pay an extra N66, 600.
The US Embassy adopts the rate of N370/$1 for Nigerians which is higher than both the official rate and the black market rate.
The US said both reciprocity and MRV fees were non-refundable, and their amounts vary based on visa classification.
“Nationals of a number of countries worldwide are currently required to pay this type of fee after their non-immigrant visa application is approved.
It explained that the reciprocity fee would be required for all Nigerian citizens worldwide, regardless of where they were applying for a non-immigrant visa to the United States.
The US Government said the reciprocity fee was required for each visa that was issued, which meant both adults and minors whose visa applications were approved would be charged the reciprocity fee.
“The fee can only be paid at the US Embassy or the US Consulate General. The reciprocity fee cannot be paid at banks or any other location,” it said.

			
			Post Views: 
			70