By Olanrewaju Adesanya
Hon. Setonji David, a Lagos state legislator has described the newly sworn-in ministers of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as a promising one,urging to help President Muhammadu Buhari, deliver dividend of democracy to Nigerians.
 
David who represents the Badagry I constituency and also Chairs the Lagos State House of Assembly Ad hoc Committee on Public Works Corporation (LSPWC)  in Lagos, tasks the new federal cabinet members.
 
 
Commending Buhari for constituting his cabinet within 90 days of his inauguration for the second term, the lawmaker hinted that some of the ministers had records of performance at various offices held before.
 
“Some of these ministers have track records of performance for instance, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, Minister of Interior, former Gov. Babatunde Fashola, Minister of Works and Housing and Sen. Olorunnimbe Mamora, Minister of Health (State),these and many others have performed credibly well before and they are going to do good job.
 
“But Nigerians are waiting, they trust their President and they are expecting succor and relief from many of the challenges facing the country,” David said.
 
He expressed confidence that the second tenure of Buhari would better the lot of Nigerians,as it would address many of the problems of this country.
 
David, who noted that efforts to rebuilding any country was not an easy task, said that the President second term would bring back the glory of the country.
 
On portfolios assigned to some of the ministers, the lawmaker said that he believed in the discretion of the President in assigning portfolios to each minister,he urged Nigerians to be patient and give the new federal executive time to perform.
 
“We believe that whatever must have informed his decision to assign those portfolios honestly would have been in the best interest of this country. It is a good omen and a positive development that the President constitutes his cabinet early,” he said.
 





			
			Post Views: 
			80