The youth wing of Ohaneze Ndigbo has fingered pro-2014 confab politicians as the backwind behind the planned #Revolution Now Protest for which the AAC ex-presidential candidate Omoyele Sowore was arrested.
“There are plots to derail his government or bring the Presidency into negotiation with the opposition by possibly getting his presidential approval to proceed and convoke a national dialogue for all ethnic nationalities in the country or implement the 2014 report of the National Confab,” said Ohaneze Youth in a statement by its President Mazi Okechukwu Izigusoro.
In 2014, former President Goodluck Jonathan conveyed a national confab which drew participants from the Arewa Consultative Forum, Ohaneze, Afenifere, the Niger Delta Forum, and other conscious movements.
A report on national issues centering on restructuring was generated, with about 600 recommendations which Jonathan later shelved.
Leaders and politicians of the groups who attended the confab have been calling on the APC and Buhari to dump its own report by a restructuring committee led by Kaduna Gov. Nasir el-Rufai, and adopt the 2014 report.
The Ndigbo Youth said it observed the utterances of these political actors in the past few days, and reached the conclusion that there’s the possibility of a political trap and conspiracy set out to catch Buhari.
It added that proposed ‘Revolution Now’ protests is a calculated time bomb hatched by some influential personalities to bring civil disobedience and disturbances in the country.
The group urged Buhari to avoid use of confrontation against the Revolution Now protesters and avert the revolution through unconditional release of Sowore.
“Sowore will be made a hero, if he continues to be in detention,” the group said.
The federal government on Sunday also challenged the politicians using the Global Coalition for Security and Democracy in Nigeria to come out ad lead the protest themselves–instead of using some faceless Nigerians as human shields.

			
			Post Views: 
			890