President Muhammadu Buhari has reacted to the recent arrest of some Nigerians in the United States of America and other foreign nations for fraudulent activities.
 
He said this in Yokohama during a meeting with leaders of the Nigerian community living in Japan on the sidelines of the Seventh Tokyo International Conference on African Development, TICAD7.
 
A statement by Buhari’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina quoted the president as saying, “Let me also say that there are few Nigerians in the Diaspora that are giving us a bad name by engaging in criminal activities. These Nigerians are a minority, they do not represent the values of our country, and I plead with them to change their ways.
 
Buhari also warned that his administration will not condone any crime either home or abroad from such Nigerians.
 
Urging Nigerians in Japan to be good ambassadors of their fatherland, the Nigerian leader said, “I am personally very happy that there are millions of Nigerians all over the world, like you here, who are truly making us proud.”
 
Describing majority of the over 17 million Nigerians in Diaspora as “the face of Nigeria globally and our ambassadors for good,” the President noted that, “Many of our Diasporans, like your good selves here today, have excelled in varying fields of endeavor, both professionally and individually.
 
According to him, “We are continually working to create the necessary enabling environment for investors to thrive, through improvements in our Ease of Doing Business practices, providing security, diversification of the economy, infrastructure and fighting corruption.”
 
He further assured them that, “We have put in place the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERPG) to put the country on a path of sustained recovery and growth.”
 
“As you are aware, I have regularly held town hall meetings with Nigerians in the Diaspora on all my foreign engagements be they in Europe, Asia, America and Africa.
 
President Buhari’s meeting with Nigerians in Diaspora, coordinated by Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Chairman, Diaspora Commission, who described the President as “the most Diaspora-friendly leader we have had in Nigeria,” witnessed a parade of the brightest and best of our citizens, plying their trade in Japan. They included academics, industrialists, top businessmen, scientists, economists, and many others.
 
Professor Ejiogu Emenike, President, Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation Asia (NIDOASIA) and an energy expert, commended President Buhari for efficient leadership, and disclosed that his members have “comparative advantages in human capital development, which we are trying to bring back to Nigeria.”
 
He added: “Any problem that science and technology can solve, we are able to, and we can help Nigeria in areas of need.”
 
Engineer Ochade Osakwe, Chairman, Nigeria/Japan Chambers of Commerce and Industry, recounted businesses that have been attracted to Nigeria in recent times, promising to do more, as the security and investment climates back home improved further.





			
			Post Views: 
			142