The German government was reported to have deported several Nigerian migrants from the country in about 48 hours members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) resident in Germany attacked former Deputy President of the Nigerian Senate, Ike Ekweremadu.
The report indicated that the deported Nigerian migrants were airlifted at the Frankfurt Airport at 8.00 a.m. on Monday and are to arrive the Murtala Muhammed International Airport from 2.00p.m. to 3.00p.m.
However, the report could not disclose the number of the illegal migrants being deported by the German Government. They were said to be arrested at random from their respective accommodation residence.
Two batches of Nigerian migrants were recalled to have been deported from Germany in the month of July.
National Dailygathered that the Co-ordination Activist for Network Refugees 4Refugees, a political platform for refugees and migrant self-organisation in Stuttgart, Germany, Rex Osa, in a media interaction declared: “The flight will be from Frankfurt on Monday. For those who have been given the information, the plane will take off by 8 a.m. and arrive in Nigeria between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m.
“Those who will be deported will be picked randomly from their different accommodation centres from 3 a.m. till 5 a.m. in different regions and conveyed to a central place and finally to Frankfurt Airport,”
He had maintained: “When their asylum application is already expired, they are obligated to leave the country.
“For those who don’t leave voluntarily, they will be given a what is I can translate in English to mean toleration status. This status is not a resident title; it is to show that the person is still there because the deportation is hindered because of one reason or the other.
“These people are picked up early in the morning without expecting the Police.
“Some would be picked up from work also. When the police arrive in their rooms, they would be allowed to pack things not more than say 64 kilos. The police will be standing to make sure the person does not escape.”
He noted that, “among these people are many sick people. Nigeria should be expecting a lot of people who have psychological problems, and people with spinal cord problems leading to paralysis.”

			
			Post Views: 
			105