The once closely knitted family of detained leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), Sheikh Ibraheem Yakubu El-Zakzaky seems to be falling apart as his elder brother, Sheikh Muhammad Yakubu, has expressed his support for the government over the proscription of the group.

Sheikh Yakubu, who is also the Zaria Branch Chairman of Izalatul Bid’ia wa Ikamatus sunna, said that the Federal Government should not stop at proscribing IMN but go further to disband the Shi’ite sect in its entirety.

He said the decision taken by the federal government to proscribe the IMN was not only right but overdue because the government can be overthrown through the violent protests of the group.

Sheikh Yakoob said the IMN leader is responsible for whatever calamity that has befallen him, saying that he was warned when he started propagating “his dangerous Shi’ite doctrine.”

He said: “As you may be aware, El-Zakzaky is my blood brother. We were given birth to by the same father. While growing up, before he started this journey into Shi’ism, I didn’t have any close friend apart from him. We did everything together. We studied together in Islamic school.

“We warned him seriously to desist when he started this Shi’ism ideology. I personally warned him several times, and when he refused, I had to abandon him. So, whatever the authorities might have done to him, he caused it for himself.”

Sheikh Yakoob added: “There is nothing good about Shi’ism. These people are supposed to have been proscribed a long time ago, but the government waited until they are now causing havoc.

On Tuesday’s declaration by another Shi’ites group that IMN members are fake Shi’ites, El-Zakzaky’s brother described the declaration as hypocritical.

According to him, all Shi’ites groups have the same doctrine and ideology. “They are liars. All Shi’ites are one,” he said.

“What they are doing is hypocrisy. All of them have the same doctrine and ideology. They are only in Shi’ites leadership tussle with Zakzaky. That is why they are denouncing him publicly.

“Therefore, it is not only Zakzaky’s group that is supposed to be proscribed. The government should outlaw the entire Shi’ites sect. This is because both Boko Haram and Shi’ites share the same ideology.

When asked about the court order that, said his brother should be released and a house built for him anywhere in northern Nigeria, Sheikh Yakubu said, government should only obey such order if it is also ready to build a house for the leader of the dreaded Boko Haram group, Abubakar Shekau.

He said: “Nobody should blame the government for holding him despite the Abuja court order. Some would say, ehn, court ordered that Zakzaky should be released and a house built for him. If they want the government to build a house for Zakzaky, then the government should also build a house for Shekau.”






			
			Post Views: 
			76