After the ICPC published the recovery of constituency projects including hospital equipment and tractors from two former senators, Nigerians and CSOs expected the anti-graft agencies to prosecute the politicians.
The agencies, however, have been dawdling—because one of the two senators is a member of the ruling APC and close to the centre of power.
In spite of the baggage of corruption allegation former Sen Godswil Akpabio has with the EFCC over misappropriation when he was governor, President Muhammadu Buhari still appointed the former PDP stalwart as minister.
Many have considered his appointment as compensation.
The former minority leader was the APC arrowhead in the Feb 23 presidential election in Akwa Ibom. And for the effort has so far put in to support Buhari, he deserved, many say, some perk, especially as he lost his return to the Senate in the election.
Akpabio also had  a roll when he went for screening at the Senate—where he was asked to take a bow and go because he was once a senator.
To tackle a minister-designate and loyal party man like Akpabio, the EFCC and ICPC might need a clearance from the presidency.
After all, another senator who backed down for the party’s candidate in the Senate principal officer election has got his multi-billion-naira corruption allegation with the EFCC worked off.
The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has therefore petitioned Bolaji Owasanoye, ICPC’s chairman, and Ibrahim Magu, EFCC’s chairman to prosecute Minsiter Gdswill Akpabio and former Sen. Isa Misau.
“If the ICPC and EFCC consider the recovered hospital equipment and six tractors allegedly diverted for the personal use of the senators as relevant and sufficient admissible evidence, we urge you to promptly begin prosecution of the former senators,” said SERAP in the petition by its Deputy Director, Kolawole Oluwadare.
“Inviting those suspected to be involved for interrogation and further questioning, and for them to promptly face prosecution as appropriate, would show that no one is above the law.
“It would be entirely consistent with the exercise of your mandates to combat corruption and with both the spirit and the letter of the UN Convention against Corruption to which Nigeria is a state party.”
According to the organization, when members of the National Assembly divert constituency projects for personal use, the essence of such projects is defeated, and the integrity of the mechanism compromised.
The petition was also copied to Professor Itse Sagay, Chairman, Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption.
Among the pieces of  equipment recovered on the premises of Mma Obot Foundation, which is allegedly owned by Godswill Akpabio, former governor of Akwa Ibom are a dialysis machine, ECG monitor, oxygen regulator, anaesthetic machines, generators and others for a cottage hospital in Ukana, Essien Udim Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State.
Six tractors were also recovered from a farm belonging to Isa Hamman Misau. The tractors were meant for the use of farmers in six local government areas of Bauchi Central Senatorial District.

			
			Post Views: 
			1,265