President Muhammadu Buhari has revealed he is only marking time before he will intervene on the crisis rocking the Edo House of Assembly and its Bauchi counterpart since the June inauguration.
His intervention however wont sit down well with the executives of those states whose manipulation sun off the logjam.
The two state’s legislative arms have not sat full since June 12, but Buhari promise to bring in the police inspector-general and the justice minister when the time comes.
Buhari’s media aide Femi Adesina, said that the President stated this when he received in audience, members of the Bauchi House of Assembly, as well as other stakeholders in the State on Wednesday.
The president said he likes to err on the side of the constitution in situations like this.
For Edo Gov Godwin Obaseki who has been at war with his godfather Adams Oshiomhole, things might get tighter.
Besides the cold war, the ruling APC headquarters has declared the minority PDP the governor supported to produce the Speaker would never rule over the majority APC.
And the House of Rep that investigated the matter said it would take over the state legislature if Obaseki refused to re-inaugurate the new assembly—because the initial proclamation was unconstitutional.
Similar developmet is going on in Bauchi, where PDP Gov Mohammed  Abubakar  was also alleged to have swung the emergence of the Speaker though the court has ruled off the Rep intervention.
“I  try to appreciate my position as the President, the political situation vis a vis the constitution of our country, the role of the commissioners of police and the party. I always like to be on the side of the constitution,” Buhari said.
He promised to liaise with the Minister of Justice when sworn in, and the Inspector General of Police, to ensure that the rights of the constituencies and individuals were not abused in any form.
But he urged the members not to give up their rights and the rights of those who elected them, charging them not to compromise on their individual integrity so as not to divide the House and the party.
The party members led by the Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, had briefed the president on events leading to the crisis in the House.

			
			Post Views: 
			26