Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State has imported 2,000 cows from Brazil to develop domestic grazing industry in the state which will ultimately provide the required meat and dairy products for the people of the state.
The governor, National Daily learned also secured the services of experts in animal husbandry from the country of origin of the cows to provide guide and requisite training for indigenes of Akwa Ibom State to handle the grazing business, themselves, within the state.
National Daily gathered that the cows are of high quality and standard specie’s.  Also, the cows are amenable to cross-breeding with domestic cows in the state for high productivity and multiplication.
Several citizens in Akwa Ibom State have commended Governor Udom Emmanuel for the foresight investment in the agricultural sector in the state. They were of the view that agricultural policy of the governor in this direction will contain the invasion of their land by the Fulani herdsmen who they feared have been killing their people.
“see better cows; not the Nigeria cows that the owners that were invisible before now want to kill everybody because their ‘father’ is the president. So, they now have voice… we should deport them and their owners,” an indigene wrote in a social media conversation.
“Thank you my Visionary Governor,” another Akwa Ibom stakeholder said. “This Particular cow won’t be of the Fulani and probably won’t have the Fulani’s behavior,” a stakeholder in Akwa Ibom State wrote.
“It’s for the DAIRY. The breed juhe is bringing is different from the ones that roam with Fulani herders. They have the capacity to produce milk, That’s the important part. Also, a hybrid can be created from the local breed with this high-milk-yielding imported species, if we want to. Brazil is in the tropics, and they will survive in Nigeria. Give them a shot of vaccine against environmental attacks around here, and off it goes to business,” this Akwa Ibom State resident wrote.

			
			Post Views: 
			6,015