The London Metropolitan Police Service have been served a petition to investigate the originality of the Cambridge documents President Muhammadu Buhari tendered during the Presidential Election Tribunal hearing.
His CoS Abba Kyari is also mentioned for his role in obtaining the documents from Cambridge University, London, which he personally tendered before the tribunal.
The PDP candidate in the February 23, presidential election, Atiku Abubakar, and his party had questioned the admissibility of the certificate.
The fresh petition, dated August 14, 2019, was forwarded by a legal practitioner, Kalu Agu.
Agu questioned the authenticity of the “certifying statement” said to have been obtained from the Cambridge Assessment International Education.
“Where did Mr. Abba Kyari get the certificate which he enclosed alongside his application form for the issuance of the said certifying statement which he claimed he procured from Cambridge Assessment International Education,” the lawyer argued.
“Whether Mr Abba Kyari as an individual can apply for the said certifying statement not being an academic institution or an employer of the candidate.
“Whether the said certifying statement can be delivered to Mr Abba Kyari by hand as he claimed he signed and personally collected same by hand in the UK.
“Evidence of the said application and of the candidate’s authorisation to the Cambridge Assessment International Education for the release of the said certifying statement to Mr Abba Kyari.”
He added that “in the circumstance that the certifying statement is found to be forged, it will be of great service to both Nigeria and the United Kingdom that Mr. Abba Kyari is arrested and arraigned in a court of competent jurisdiction for forgery.”
Atiku and PDP had their final address filed by their lead counsel, Dr Levy Uzoukwu SAN, said they have established that Buhari does not possess the requisite academic qualification for the position of President of Nigeria.
They referred to Buhari’s witnesses, including WAEC’s registrar, who insisted the Cambridge documents are not original results.
The National Daily learnt the petitioner also sent a copy of the petition to the DSS for action.
Both the PDP and the APC have closed their cases at the tribunal, waiting with baited breath for the court’s decision on the actual winner of the Feb 23 presidential election of which INEC declared Buhari as winner.

			
			Post Views: 
			3,008