THE Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has told the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Makurdi, the Benue State capital,  that “due to logistical challenges”, it would not be unable to open defence.
The electoral body was due to open defence today in a petition filed by Emmanuel Jime of All Progressives Congress (APC) challenging the return of Samuel Ortom of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as Benue State governor.
But, INEC lead counsel OEB Offiong, SAN at the beginning of proceedings urged the tribunal to adjourn the matter to August 15.
“My Lords, the matter was fixed for the 1st respondent (INEC) to open defence. Regrettably, due to logistical challenges, we are unable to open today.
“We have reached a consensus with my brothers of the inner Bar for the 2nd and 3rd respondents and the petitioners that the matter be adjourned to Thursday. I’ve given them my undertaking that on that day, we will open and close our case.
“In the light of that, we are requesting the honourable tribunal to adjourn the matter to August 15, 2019.”
Chief E.K. Ashiekaa SAN, Chief Chris Uche SAN and Kehinde Eleja SAN, who appeared respectively for 2nd respondent (Ortom), 3rd respondent (PDP), the petitioners (Jime/APC) gave their consent to the request by INEC’s counsel.
Uche SAN told the Honourable Tribunal: “I stand to confirm the position as stated by my learned brother silk for the 1st respondent Chief Offiong. We have also agreed among ourselves that cognisance of the timelines for various steps by the parties and also for the honourable tribunal to perform its own statutory responsibilities  in the matter in moving forward in due course, make consequential adjustments to timelines previously agreed upon.
“And we have all agreed to come back on August 15, 2019, after the Sallah holiday, to continue the proceedings subject to the convenience of your lordships.”
Eleja SAN confirmed on behalf of the petitioners that “parties have agreed to come back next Thursday for the 1st respondent to present its case”.
The tribunal Chairman Justice Henry A. Olusiyi, in his ruling, granted the request as prayed.


			
			Post Views: 
			56