An Islamic cleric in Port Harcourt has contradicted the Muslim Rights Concern which has been attacking Rivers Gov Nyesom Wike of beig anti-Muslim following a video circulating online.
Ustaz Yahaya Imam Abdulahi assured that Muslims are not under any form of attack in Rivers, adding that Muslims are living in peace and going about their normal businesses without fears of molestation in the state.
Imam Abdulahi, who is the leader of Bori Central Mosque in Khana Local Government Area of the state, spoke in response to te video clip circulating in the social media about the alleged demolition of Trans-Amadi Central Mosque in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital.
There were concerns that Muslims in the state are under attack.
The cleric said the Muslims in Rivers have been receiving telephone calls from every state following the misconception about the issue of mosque demolition. 
MURIC, a group advocating for the rights of Muslims, has had to tackle Wike over the demolition, calling him a liar for denying he ordered any demolition of a mosque.
According to Abdullahi, there are over 130 major mosques in Rivers state, not counting the smaller ones in the streets.
“There was an area called Rainbow Community along Trans Amadi area. Five to seven years or so ago the government of Rivers state gave a notice that they need the land. The issue went to court, there was a legal tussle and the state government won,” he explained.
“The state government demolished everything there; churches, mosque, houses, and shops.
“After some years again, the Muslim community resident in the area got another land from a local chief for over N11.5m. they built a mosque there – that was after the demolition of the first mosque, which affected all the residents, not only the Muslim community.
“Sometimes again, another demolition took place and they lost this mosque that was about five years ago. They didn’t leave the place, but are praying there every day and every week. It was when the state government went to clear there again that started this.”
In the video Governor Wike was addressing his supporters (on Ruga), assuring them that Rivers is a Christian state and he has no regret. 
The Imam clarified that the video which MURIC and others were reacting to was not connected with the latest matter.
He appreciated the governor for his good leadership, and ask for compensation where demolition took place.

			
			Post Views: 
			1,246