By Olanrewaju Adesanya
The Lagos State House of Assembly 16-man Ad hoc Committee for Screening Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s Commissioners and Special Advisers nominees finalize quizzing of 25 nominees before it.
The committee, headed by Hon Rotimi Abiru, a four-term lawmaker representing Somolu Constituency II, had commenced the exercise on Thursday.
The screening process was carried out at the Lateef Jakande Auditorium, Assembly Complex, Ikeja, saw eight nominees screened on Thursday, 10 on Friday and the last seven on Saturday.
The committee at the first session on Thursday screened Mrs Toke Benson-Awoyinka, Princess Aderemi Adebowale, Mr Tunji Bello, Ms Adekemi Ajayi-Bembe, Dr Wale Ahmed and Prof. Akin Abayomi.
Others screened were: Mr Hakeem Fahm and Mr Gbenga Omotoso.
The committee at the second session on Friday screened  Mrs Bolaji Dada, Mr Lere Odusote, Mr Moyo Onigbanjo (SAN), Mrs Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf and Mr Segun Dawodu.
Others are: Mrs Folashade Adefisayo, Mrs Ponnle Ajibola, Dr Rabiu Olowo, Mr Olatunbosun Alake and Mr Samuel Egube.
While on the third day, the committee screened, Dr Idris Salako, Dr Frederic Oladeinde, Mr Gbolahan Lawal,  Mr Aramide Adeyoye, Ms Ruth Olusanya, Mr Afolabi Ayantayo, and Mr Femi George.
Since the commencement of the exercise on Thursday, only one nominee, Ahmed was told to take a bow and leave without being questioned by members of the committee.
Ahmed is a former member of the House during the 4th Assembly (1999-2003) and presently the State Secretary of APC.
Speaking to newsmen after the exercise on Saturday, Abiru expressed satisfaction with the competence of the nominees in the way they all responded to questions from members of the committee.
The chairman, at the end of each screening exercise for individual nominee, told them that the House would get back to them through the governor.
According to him, the committee will submit its report to the 40-member House after which decision will be taken on the nominees.
Members of the committee took turns to interrogate the nominees one after the other to see what they would bring to the table for the benefits of mass majority of residents.
The exercise, which started at 10:00am in each of the three days, ended at past 6:00 pm, 8:00pm and 5:00pm respectively in those days






			
			Post Views: 
			98