The Nigerian youths have been charged to learn good virtues and exhibit good engagement traits rather than been on the defensive at all times,to ensure a well secured society.
This forms the kernel of the Students Security Summit organized by the National Association of Nigerian Students Lagos State axis in partnership with the Nigerian Police Lagos State Command recently held at the Law annex of the University of Lagos.
The guest lecturer Assistant Superintendent of Police Taiwo Kasumu, DPO Igando expose the participants to salient points in engendering a secured society as he spoke to the theme of the summit: Crime,Fear and Insecurity in Tiertiary Institutions Challenges,impacts and prevention strategies.
Kasumu said the bad eggs in the Police are gradually been purged or inevitably flushed out,urging the students from various higher institutions in the state gathered at the venue to engage the Police Complaint and Public Relations unit (PPRO&PPCB) rather than resort to needless aggression.
In a somewhat, interractive session that lasted for hours,the Police force and her various agencies spoke to the youths, eliciting feedbacks and questions to address the frosty relation between the student Community and the force in time past.
Comrade Adekintan a member of the Student Union Governing council College of Health,a representative of NANS Comrade Sulaimon,Comrade Akindele David former Student Representative  Council President of the Lagos State Polytechnic LASPOTECH,all took the police to the cleaners on some nefarious activities sighted in the force.
The Lagos State Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC) Chairman Mr. David Adetomiwa in his closing remarks noted that safety of the society is paramount.
“We have a State and a country that we need to build together as the inputs from the students is germane.
“We need collaboration with all stakeholders to have a secured society,we must make the Police to work for the good of all.”
The Commander Police Anticultism Unit CSP Uduak Udom and Operation Commander of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad SARS also took turns to explain the operation modes of the units to engender better relationship with public.








			
			Post Views: 
			81