The Presidency has seemingly become engulfed in palpable tension over the decision of Professor Wole Soyinka and a legal-based legal practitioner, Femi Falana SAN, to participate in subsequent public activities of the RevolutionNow Movement led by Omodele Sowore. The two renowned stakeholders in the Nigerian project revealed their unreserved support for the revolutionary movement as well as their disgust over the violent behaviours of the All Progressives Congress (APC) federal government in rolling out soldiers and police against innocent citizens who were on peaceful mass protest on August 5 when the RevolutionNow Movement went on peaceful mass action against the failing government of the day.
Meanwhile, Coalition for Revolution (CORE), coordinators of the RevolutionNow Movement is mobilizing for another public activity to bolster the protest of the RevolutionNow Movement against bad governance in Nigeria. This time, the group is taking the protest and agitation from the streets to the conference hall where enlightened Nigerians will be gathered to deliberate on the failures of government in the country.
National Dailylearned that Professor Wole Soyinka and Femi Falana SAN are already waiting for the date of the RevolutionNow next activity which is expected to hold on August 19, 2019, in Lagos. It was revealed that deliberation will focus on: “Democracy, State Repression and The State of Insecurity in Nigeria”.
The organizers explained that the programme is part of the processes of agitating the detention of Omoyele Sowore, Convener of the RevolutionNow movement, including widening consultations and enlightenment of Nigerians on the struggle for change in the country.
“In view of the stepping-up of government repression within the past days’ consequence to the peaceful #REVOLUTIONNOW protest; the Coalition for Revolution (CORE) is organising a working consultative assembly of activists and organisations against the Draconian development and the detention of scores of activists in the DSS cells.
“This is in continuation of our popular struggle. Consultation and mass education are necessary in the struggle for change,” the group declared in a statement.
Some stakeholders have expressed concerns that it is becoming obvious that the APC federal government would have a huge task on that day to prevent people from attendance as is known of the government characteristics.
 

			
			Post Views: 
			18,091