The National Working Committee of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), says the prevailing situation of hopelessness under President Muhammadu Buhari and his All Progressives Congress (APC) is threatening Nigeria’s national cohesion and corporate existence as a nation

PDP claimed that the rising uncertainties and the issue of insecurity, biting economic hardship, as well as prevailing tension in all parts of the country, were indications that Nigeria was gradually collapsing.

The party stated this in a statement signed by its spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan.

According to the statement: “It is clear that the APC and the Buhari Presidency have held Nigerians hostage. Nigerians are now being treated like a conquered people. They can no longer freely exercise their constitutionally guaranteed rights;

“We note that due to the prevailing anti-democratic proclivities of the Buhari Presidency, our once cohesive and economically thriving nation has come under distress on all fronts; never in the history of our nation has our fault lines become so visible; uncertainty now envelopes our nation; citizens are nervous and agitated as ominous hopelessness sets in.

“Our party has also noticed that since the defence of the APC and President Buhari collapsed at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, the APC and its government have taken to harassment and repression of Nigerians by surreptitiously suspending constitutional provisions of freedom of speech and association in our country.

Ologbondiyan in the statement said many compatriots are being taken in as political prisoners all in a bid to foist a siege mentality and suppress public opinion.

“Today, the Buhari Presidency cannot guarantee the security and safety of citizens. Bloodletting and violence have become the order of the day. Invaders, insurgents, kidnappers and killers have taken over major highways and communities; our nation’s security machinery have become overstretched; Nigerians now live in palpable fear; they cannot freely travel within their country and the government has no answers.

“On the economic front, President Buhari has ruined our economy and led our nation to become the world’s capital of poverty, while condoning the humongous corruption that has become the hallmark of his failed administration.

“Sadly, President Buhari’s anti-development policies, the corruption in his government as well as its failure to provide security have scared away foreign investors from our nation.

“Only recently, the United Nations declared that 43 percent of our nation’s Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) has taken flight to other countries. Unemployment has gone out of proportion and there is no hope in sight,” he added.








Odunewu Segun
Acting Business Editor
National Daily Newspaper
+2347065955339
7051895031








			
			Post Views: 
			88