Former Governor of Abia state and Chief Whip of the Senate, Orji Kalu has debunked the insinuation that he cancelled his medical trip to Germany because he was afraid of being given the Ekweremadu treatment.
Recall that former Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu was at the weekend attacked in Nuremberg, Germany by irate IPOB members when he attended the annual New Yam Festival organized by the Igbo community in Germany.
In the video clips, the angry mob was seen preventing the lawmaker from escaping, but he was later whisked away in a Mercedes-Benz car, even as the mob continued to beat him.
Speaking on Monday, Kalu said he did not suspend his planned medical check-up to Germany because of what happened to Sen. Ike Ekweremadu.
“I have been in my country home interacting with the people and settling disputes. The news that I suspended by planned medical check-up in Germany was not true.
“I was invited by Igbo group in Spain to attend their function, I could not go because of the interaction with my constituents.’’
Kalu had described the action of the IPOB members as uncivilised, unacceptable and barbaric, urging Igbo people to respect their leaders at all levels.
He noted that the only way the South-East zone can be prosperous was by embracing dialogue, peace and unity.
Kalu also urged the Embassy of Nigeria in Germany, the German Government and appropriate authorities to bring the perpetrators of the ugly incident to book.
He said: “After watching a viral video of the physical attack on former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweramadu, I was not only disappointed but irritated and disturbed with the action of some members of IPOB.
“The assault on the senator is a slap on Igbo leaders regardless of age, party affiliation and religion. The perpetrators of the uncivilised act must face the wrath of the law.
“Sen. Ekweramadu is not only one of the Igbo leaders, but also a prominent Nigerian and as such should be accorded due respect by all and sundry at home and abroad.
“For the South-East to move forward, the people of the zone must embrace dialogue as a way of resolving pertinent issues and eschew violence.”












			
			Post Views: 
			157