Facts are beginning to emerge on why President Muhammadu Buhari by-passed his Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo for his Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari and Secretary to Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha.
Recall that reports had indicated that President Muhammadu Buhari last week directed his Ministers to report to his Chief of Staff, Mr. Abba Kyari and has also directed the Secretary to Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha to handle most of government businesses.
A move, National Daily gathered is meant to shield the prying eyes of Nigerians from the deteriorating health of the President, and by extension protect the kitchen cabinet of the President being led by Mallam Abba Kyari.
The current scenario at the Aso Rock Villa is similar to the situation in 2010, when certain cabinet ministers and some individuals at the Aso Rock Villa, hijacked government businesses during the period the late former President of Nigeria, Umaru Musa Yar’Adua was sick before he eventually died in May.
National Daily gathered from reliable source inside Aso Rock that President Buhari health has worsened, and may have resulted into amnesia where he barely remembers most of his discussions with people.
The source says…,”If you discuss anything with Mr. President now, within few minutes of that discussion, the President will not be able to remember anything”
According to the source, the president is on special medication to prop him up, adding that a special clinic is being constructed in the President’s home town of Daura, Katsina state with some special doctors, imported to take care of the President’s deteriorating health.
He also added that the President collapsed during the recent Ministerial retreat in Abuja, but the cabal through security agents controlled the situation and warned those who witnessed the collapse to keep quiet or face dire consequences.
Nigeria is currently governed by a cabal at the Presidency and the entire affairs of the country is now in the hands of an unelected select few.
Meanwhile, it was gathered that there’s a deep division within the cabal as there are reports that the First Lady, Dr. Mrs Aisha Buhari has fled Nigeria due to threats to her life by other members of the cabal because of her opposition to their activities.

			
			Post Views: 
			1,347