The report reaching National Daily has it that David de Gea is set to remain at Manchester United according to the Red Devils’ legend Peter Schemeichel.
 
Schemeichel reportedly confirmed to The Mirror that the Spaniard’s new contract has been sorted by the Old Trafford club.
 
David de Gea “is staying” at Manchester United, says Peter Schmeichel, with the former goalkeeper claiming that the Spaniard No. 1 has been “tied down” despite no official announcement of a new contract.
 
The future of the Red Devils’ No. 1 has been a subject of much speculation for several months.
De Gea has entered the final year of his current deal at Old Trafford and initially appeared reluctant to commit to fresh terms.
 
Going by Schemeichel’s claim, it has however been suggested that a long-term extension has been thrashed out with the 28-year old De Gea.
 
The former Red Devil’s goalkeeper says that agreement is done, with United able to rest easy after securing the services of a talismanic presence and four-time United Player of the Year.
 
According to Schemeichel, “David was a great signal that we start off with arguably our best performer over the last five years.
“We have tied him down, he is staying and now we move on and build on that.”
 
While De Gea appears to have been talked into staying, United have parted with the vast experience of Ander Herrera and Antonio Valencia at the end of their respective contracts.
 
Moves are being made to counter those departures, with Schmeichel pleased to see former team-mate Ole Gunnar Solskjaer turning to youth for inspiration.
 
The legendary former Red Devils custodian added: “We had a few guys who have been instrumental like Antonio Valencia and Ander Herrera who have left with their contracts running out.
“They have had to be replaced by Manchester United youth which is a very positive thing.
 
“[Aaron] Wan-Bissaka has come in and Daniel James who are good exciting young British players.
“They are still a bit raw but massively talented and that is proper Man United DNA. You find those kinds of players and develop them.
 
“I also know Ole has worked really hard on getting the players fitter than they have ever been and that is going to stand them in good stead.
“That is going to be a big difference to last season and the season before. I think it is about longevity – duration not only in games but in the course of the season as well.
 
“The fitter you are, the longer you last. It is an interesting season and I am really looking forward to it.
“We all want Man United to do a lot better. I am very positive we will see a big improvement.
 
“But I don’t think you change from being one to the next over the course of just one summer.”

			
			Post Views: 
			222