1. Two teams, one for winning the senior boys cup, the other for winning the junior boys cup. Finally the senior boys won.
2. When you lose to United 4 goals because you have your eye on the Super Cup but end up still losing the Cup. What do you say to the Manager?
3. Do you tell him, ‘well done Frank, at least you lost in penalties’? Or do you tell him, ‘if you knew you would lose this Cup why the shameful defeat in the hands of a Dead United’?
4. And yes this Super Cup was quite boring. And Liverpool was weak. Are they tired? Cos there was no gengenpressing anywhere in today’s match.
5. Is this the Tammy Abraham that has been doing yanga for Super Eagles? This one can not lace Odion Ighalo’s training boots.
6. Pulisic is decent average. Mount is promising. And Ngolo Kante does no wrong. Femino is the brain box of the attack, Mane is the strength and star while the best penalty kick award goes to Sallah.
7. Can Chelsea win Liecester City this weekend? Answer is No. Still No. Nothing has changed. If their strikers are still Abraham and Giroud, and the playmaker is Pulisic. It’s a no!
8. Frank Lampard hasn’t exactly done anything worthy of praise yet. So let’s still watch him and not give him any honor yet. The only thing he has done is trust in the younger legs. But that is not game tactics or strategy. We are yet to even know his philosophy. I still see flashes of Sarri Ball.
9. But Frank Lampard can still be cut some slack in the fact that he is working with an inherited squad. Every builder needs time.
10. If I am in charge of running the Chelsea Club. I will drop the number 9 jersey for 9 years. Or give it to the goalkeeper or defender. Once Tammy stepped up to take the spot-kick, everyone was already scared of the number 9 curse. Superstitious or not this is extra pressure against the team.
11. The officiating team of ladies didn’t do bad. But what’s the need? Are we going to have women players among the male teams? Are we going to have women coach or manage the male teams? Why should we have the females officiate the male games? Shouldn’t the females do theirs and the guys handle their own? Just saying.
12. Now some loser-mentality fans will say, ‘ Ediale we didn’t lose woefully like you said we would’ but I will just mail them Victor AD’s Suffer track.


			
			Post Views: 
			182