Man United boss,Ole Gunnar Solskjaer arrives at Carrington to thrash out final transfers. The
Norwegian has until 5pm on Thursday to conclude his business and finalise the squad he will be
going into next season with.
And he looked focussed as he arrived at the club’s training ground in his silver Volvo on
Tuesday morning as he prepares to sit down and thrash out the deals that could shape their
campaign.
After confirming the signing of his long time top centre-back target Harry Maguire on Monday,
Solskjaer has every reason to be feeling positive but he is still expected to make at least one new
signing while others could be heading for the exit door.
For Solskjaer, bringing in a new attacking midfielder appears to be a priority after they pulled the
plug on a move for Juventus star Paulo Dybala due to concerns over his desire to move and the
huge sums of money involved.
Reports say Solskjaer has now turned his attention to Tottenham midfielder, Christian Eriksen.
To get a deal done, United will have to act extremely quickly as other clubs are sniffing around
and might hold an advantage as the windows in Europe will stay open for almost three weeks
after the one in England has shut.
A transfer might also hinge on whether Tottenham can do a deal for one-time United target
Bruno Fernandes or Real Betis’s Giovani Lo Celso.
Eriksen is said to be keen on the move having previously told Spurs he would like to seek a new
challenge.
They could also be willing to listen to offers as the 27-year-old Denmark international is about to
enter the final year of his contract.
Elsewhere for United, Solskjaer is also understood to be keen to bring in some more competition
for his forward line.
While Romeu Lukaku was set to move to Juventus as part of the failed Dybala deal, he still
wants to leave and United might go back to Juve on search of a replacement for him.
Mario Mandzukic has been strongly linked with a move as the 33-year-old veteran looks for one
last big move.
Despite his age, Mandzukic is a forward with a world-class pedigree and his ability to play
across a front three could appeal to United.

			
			Post Views: 
			5,195