Spanish La Liga, the world’s most famous football league has exclusively sealed a partnership deal with Arewa Radio,  the North-West Region based radio station in Nigeria with a view to reach out to its large and heterogeneous fans in  Hausa language across the northern region,National Daily learnt.


The Communication and Projects Coordinator of La Liga Nigeria, Ayodeji Adegbenro said the need for the league to identify with Arewa Radio was hinged on its unique style of 24 hours broadcasting in Hausa Language, its priority for standard sport shows as well as its wide range of coverage and information dissemination to millions of northern Nigerians.

Adegbenro further explained that the medium now have the full rights to promote the La Liga brand  by broadcasting any match of the league towards enhancing its local knowledge in northern parts of the country.

“We believe that the partnership will grow the league in the North. We have no doubt about that due to our findings on the antecedent of Arewa Radio brand in the region and we do hope that the partnership would be sustained to enable both parties harness its benefits” he said.

He added that the partnership would be exclusive to only Arewa Radio in the State, making it the only radio station with first hand information about the league in the region, adding that as such, the agreement would also avail some staff of the station opportunity to occasionally travel to Spain for live coverage of selected La Liga matches.

In his remarks, the Station’s Manager, Prince Daniel (Aboki) described the partnership as timely and a welcome development considering the fact that the medium’s sport shows are rated to be the best among its kinds in the region just as the station’s reach is incomparable.

“It is on record that we have the best sport team and shows in the region and we do not compromise standard. An international organisation recently conducted an independent research where Arewa Radio was considered to be the most listened radio station at grassroot within its franchise, our number of daily news bulletins surpass every other radio stations in the region, with all this, I can assure you that you are at the right place” Aboki further explained.

On his part, the Head of Sports of Arewa Radio, who doubles as the spokesperson of the Under 23 Nigerian football team, Sharif Abdallah (Babs) also expressed happiness over the development. He was optimistic that the partnership would be fruitful and rewarding.

			
			Post Views: 
			106