Plans are underway by Nigerians in the Diaspora to stage a massive protest against President Muhammadu Buhari at the forthcoming United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) coming up September 17..
The agitators will be demanding the release of all political prisoners under the APC administration, freedom for the remaining Chibok girls, Leah Sharibu, Omoyele Sowore, Sambo Dasuki and Ibrahim El Zakzaky.
They will also be asking Buhari to end killings allegedly by Fulani herdsmen, ensure respect for the rule of law, provision of adequate security, for Nigerians, stop human rights abuses and to ensure that government stops interfering, harassing and intimidation of the Nigerian judiciary.
They will be urging the US to include the COAS Gen. Tukur Buratai and other Nigerian Service Chiefs in the Visa ban already proposed for those that aided the rigging and violence that characterized the 2019 general elections.
According to Timi Frank, a former APC spokesman, in Abuja on Wednesday, the current administration does not practice democracy and as such does not allow protest in Nigeria.
“We urge all Nigerians in diaspora to come out and protest and the UN General Assembly in New York to make General Buhari understand that Nigeria belongs to all of us. This apolitical protest is to save Nigeria from further destruction by General Buhari whose sole aim is to Islamise Nigeria,” he said in a statement.
“A protest date will be communicated later, however Nigerians in the diaspora should brace up for this mother of all protests as this is an opportunity to let the world know about the plight of Nigeria and Nigerians.
“All regional groups including IPOB, Ohanaeze, Afenifere, etc, in diaspora should take part in this apolitical protest to bring to the knowledge of the world, the sufferings, human right abuses and oppression being meted out to Nigerians by Gen. Buhari.”
Frank insisted Buhari should be addressed as a general because of the controversies still trailing his Feb 23 election victory, and other rights violation going on in his administration.

			
			Post Views: 
			277