The pressure is already on Frank Lampard to find some tactical answers as the Chelsea coach seeks his first Premier League win of the season away at Norwich City today.

The club legend is finding life tougher in the dugout, and is struggling with a porous defence coupled with a blunt attack – and both will be tested by a confident Norwich at Carrow Road this afternoon.

After drawing against Leicester last weekend, but with his defence being very effective, Frank Lampard is also expected to name a similar side, with Giroud once again set to lead the line.

Willian is on return from an injury, and came off the bench last weekend, however he is not set to dislodge Pulisic or Pedro from the starting XI. Frank Lampard will be needing a win in tomorrow’s game to get the fans behind him and the player’s morales more positive.

Ruben Loftus-Cheek (Achilles) and Reece James (ankle) remain out of action, but Callum Hudson-Odoi (Achilles) is on the comeback trail after returning to training.

Antonio Rudiger is not yet fully fit, but Lampard hopes the centre-back will be ready to feature against Sheffield United next weekend. In midfield, N’Golo Kante could miss out due to an ankle sprain, with Mateo Kovacic potentially set to deputise alongside Jorginho.

Mount’s strike is the only goal Chelsea have scored in 180 minutes of Premier League football, so Lampard may need a rethink further forward.

Olivier Giroud led the line last weekend and made way for Tammy Abraham in the second half, but neither could find the net.

One possibility could be for Lampard to play Christian Pulisic through the middle as Eden Hazard was deployed in the past, while Ross Barkley is also a possibility – as is Michy Batshauyi, despite seemingly being out of favour with the coach.

Willian is also now in contention, while Pedro is expected to be fit after missing training earlier this week.

“We want to win of course. We must remain confident. We want to win the game but must be respectful of Norwich. I know the dangers that they have,” says Lampard.

He also states that Kante picked up an injury during the week and will be assessed in the next 24hours to see if he is match-fit. Rudiger is not fit for tomorrow’s game, but Lampard is hoping he’ll be ready for next week.

Lampard knows Norwich well from coming up against them last season in the championship and this will help with preparation, but will only make him aware of their dangers.

As for Norwich, Onel Hernandez is out for three months after suffering an ACL injury and Christoph Zimmerman (knee) is also absent.

Daniel Farke – who seems likely to stick with the same XI that beat Newcastle 3-1 last week – could welcome back defender Timm Klose after a hip issue.






			
			Post Views: 
			877