Churches and other religious organizations in the country are now to pay a license fee of N30, 000 to conduct marriages in their places of worship as well as prospective couples paying N21, 000 for marriage certificates.

Recall that the Federal Government had last week began issuing new federal marriage certificate, advising couples who do not have their certificate issued by the Ministry of Interior to visit the ministry’s website to re-certify their marriage certificates.

According to the Director, Citizenship and Business, Federal Ministry of Interior, Steve Okon, places of worship will be licensed individually, not as a group.

“If the Catholic Church in Wuse is licenced and the Catholic Church in Kubwa is not, if you conduct your wedding in Kubwa, then your certificate is invalid,” he said.

He explained that after licensing a place of worship, 25 copies of the marriage certificate are given to it at the cost of N2, 500, stressing that the certificate cannot be given out without the couple paying the N21, 000 to the ministry,” he said.

Explaining further, Okon said there is need to have a fixed price of marriage certificate in order to help stop extortion of citizens, adding that the license for place of worship will be renewed every two years at N30,000.

He listed requirements for a place of worship to be licensed to include, Certificate of incorporation of place of worship; Place of worship constitution; Minister’s ordination certificate; I.D card; Pastor’s passport photographs; six photographs of the exterior and interior of the church building and evidence of landed property.

According to Okon, criteria for place of worship to qualify for approval to conduct marriage are: The church must have been registered under the land perpetual succession act cap 98 of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.

The church must have been built of concrete walls; it must have an ordained priest as the head; must have provisions for safe keeping of valuable documents; must have adequate ventilation to prevent stuffiness and must have a clean environment.

Others are: The church must have giant fire extinguishers installed in case of fire as well as a stand-by generator.

It must also have public address system; Closets; Must be on a permanent site not a temporary site; Must be fully completed with all the facilities itemized above in place before the formal inspection by the office.

Photographs of the interior and exterior views of the church which must include the view of the building and church signpost.
Okon explained that 4,689 places of worship have been registered and 314 have renewed their licences, advising those not registered to visit www.ECITIBIZ.INTERIOR. GOV.NG









			
			Post Views: 
			142