Lagos State Executive Council will be fully inaugurated on Tuesday, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said.

The Governor said he would not delay the swearing-in of Commissioner- and Special Adviser-designates already cleared by the State House of Assembly.

Sanwo-Olu spoke on Sunday while receiving a body of retired top civil servants under the aegis of the Association of Lagos State Retired Heads of Service and Permanent Secretaries (ALARHOSPS).

Sanwo-Olu said that the wheel of governance would be in full gear before the end of the coming week, in fulfillment of his campaign promise to inaugurate his cabinet within 90 days.

Adding that newly appointed Permanent Secretaries would also be sworn on Monday to complement the activities of Commissioners and Special Advisers.

He said: “Next week, by God’s grace, we are swearing in all other complements of cabinet and also Permanent Secretaries to have the engine of governance on full swing. At that point, we believe that all the campaign promises we made can come to reality and Lagosians can benefit more from the choice they made at the last election.”

The cabinet members are expected to be allocated their individual ministries during the inauguration ceremony, scheduled to start at 9am.

The Governor described the body of retired civil servants as “valuable assets” to the state, noting that their actions while in service contributed to the “enviable height” Lagos attained among states in the nation.

It would be recalled that the ad-hoc committee of the state House of Assembly on the screening of the cabinet nominees completed its work on Friday and is expected to submit its report today (Monday) for final clearance of the nominees by the whole House.

However, when contacted on phone about this last hurdle the permanent secretary ministry of information and strategy, Mr. Fola Adeyemi assured that the last hurdle would definitely be scaled on Monday to pave way for the inauguration on Tuesday.











			
			Post Views: 
			140