harps need for national dialogue






By Olanrewaju Adesanya
A coalition of 406 indigenous youth groups in Nigeria and the Diaspora on Saturday called on President Muhammdu Buhari and the 36 state governors to immediately save the country from imminent collapse.
The groups, under the aegis of the Nigerian Ethnic Nationality Youth Leaders Forum (NENYLF), also appealed to Buhari to order the immediate release of Omoyele Sowore, who was detained for allegedly planning a ‘Revolution Now Movement’ protest.
The groups spoke on the state of the nation in a joint statement signed by Alhaji Yerima Shettima of the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF), who doubles as chairman of NENYLF, Aremo Oladotun Hassan, President of the Yoruba Council of Youths Worldwide, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, President General, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide and Barr. Pereotubo Oweilaemi, President, Ijaw Youth Council Worldwide.
According to them, the country now faces obvious signs of anarchy and no responsible government and its leadership can continue to fold their arms pretending that all is well.
They listed some of the challenges facing the country to include “serial political imbalance and hydra headed government’s policies.”
They demanded for ‘a new people’s national dialogue document master plan’ to immediately “salvage the ailing ship of the nation from imminent total collapse, in view of the ongoing  premeditated and inciteful actions from various groups intended to cause full breakdown of law and order.”
The coalition decried the crippling effect of corruption on the economy, political rifts, continued attacks by armed bandits and terrorists, kidnappings and killings of peace loving Nigerians across the nation.
“We are more informed and learned to see daily threats as an invitation to anarchy and civil disturbances precipitating our further urgent and immediate call on President Muhammadu Buhari alongside 36 states governors to jointly proffer short and long term goals and objectives, aimed at rebuilding confidence and patriotism, developing economic master plan and innovative poverty alleviation programs in Nigeria,” the coalition said.
According to the groups, steps must be taken urgently to show the will power of democracy at work, and protect the civil rights of the citizens, preserve constitutional authority and sovereignty of the government.
They urged the authorities to ensure that the various regions of the country do not remain breeding grounds for terrorism, wanton kidnapping, daily killings, corruption inflicted economy and nepotism.
“We shall be demanding that President Muhammadu Buhari set all machineries of government in motion to kick start the convocation of a National Dialogue ahead 30th September to 1st October, 2019.
“This is a no holds bar National Dialogue predicated on discussing critical areas of our national lives, in order to guarantee national security,  peace, economic growth,political stability and development of Nigeria,” the groups said.
While urging the government to go after criminals irrespective of their ethnic leanings, they warned the perpetrators of insecurity to desist forthwith from any actions capable of causing national commotion under whatsoever guise with immediate effect.










			
			Post Views: 
			92