Gary Neville was critical of Paul Pogba’s missed penalty penalty against Wolves last Monday.
According to the former England international, Pogba taking a penalty off a team-mate was ‘treachery’. This comment obviously did not go well with some notable Man United supporters who have since made an outright condemnation of the comment.
National Daily learned that Gary Neville has been told to ‘get real’ over his comments about Paul Pogba – by former Manchester United team-mate Andy Cole.
Neville was fuming after Pogba’s penalty miss in United’s 1-1 draw againstWolves, which came after the midfielder was seen discussing with team-mate Marcus Rashford who should take the spot-kick.
Rashford has a perfect record from 12 yards, while Pogba has missed four in the last year.
After the Wolves match, United legend Gary Neville blasted: “It is treachery in football terms to take a penalty off a teammate.”
Neville seemingly hopes Rashford will be on duty if United get a penalty against Crystal Palace on Saturday.
He told Sky Sports on Monday night: “I don’t like it, why is there a long debate over who is taking it? There should never be a debate.
“Pogba has missed four of them over the last 12 months, so you would think he has had his chance.
“Rashford scored last week… take the penalty! There wasn’t a leader out on the pitch. They couldn’t make a decision between them. It was embarrassing.”
But Neville’s fellow 1999 treble winner Cole told Talksport: “I didn’t see Marcus kick up a stink about it so Marcus was comfortable about giving him the penalty.
“We are talking about Paul missing a penalty when the goalkeeper makes a very, very good save.
“I get on well with Gary Neville, but when people start talking about treachery and all that… come on, this is a sport.
Let’s get real. We love football but when we start talking on those levels, he left me scratching my head a little bit.
“He didn’t do it on purpose. The goalkeeper made a very good save. Yes, Marcus scored a penalty against Chelsea the week before but if Marcus was comfortable and Paul was comfortable we have to get on with it and move on.”
National Daily further gathered that yet another of Neville’s treble winning team-mate, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer who is also the current Man United boss has insisted that Paul Pogba and Marcus Rashford are still sharing penalty duties at the club.
He went on to add that “it’s not like there’s anarchy” at the club over taking spot-kicks despite outcry following the draw at Wolves.
The United boss speaking ahead their 3pm game against Crystal Palace at Old Trafford on Saturday, defended his players and said that too much has been made of the switch in takers.
“It’s not that I’ve left it to the players to sort out, we’ve nominated two,” the Norwegian insisted.
“Last season we had Marcus, Jesse (Lingard), Paul, who all scored penalties, probably more as well.
“(There’s) absolutely no fighting among them. We’re disappointed that we didn’t win the game but the talk is always more difficult when you don’t get a result.
“I’m sure you’re going to see Paul Pogba score a penalty for Man Utd again. Definitely.
“Let’s see when we get the next one. We’re practising penalties still and Marcus and Paul are still on them.”
 

			
			Post Views: 
			1,106