A former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Reno Omokri has described President Muhammadu Buhari and national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu as unrepentant liars who are ready to do anything to get political power.

He disclosed this on Monday while reacting to the confession by a former spokesman of the All Progressives Congress, Timi Frank, that the ruling party fabricated outright lies against Jonathan.

He said it has not only vindicated the former leader but has exposed the APC to be a NAZI-like propagandist organization that used and uses fraud and economic sabotage to destroy Nigeria in its quest for power.

He said Frank revealed that damaging allegations made against the former President were deliberate falsehoods, fabricated by leaders of the APC against Dr. Jonathan, without any thought spared for the economic impact on the nation.

Omokri also recalled some of the most damaging allegations against the administration of ex-President Jonathan including the $49 billion missing and unaccounted for from the Federation Account and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), and that the ex-President had emptied out the Excess Crude Account.

He said: “These false allegations were made in a desperate power grab, but they led to a massive loss of confidence in the Nigerian economy, leading to capital flight. These acts of economic sabotage were deliberate and are criminal.


“Based on the confession and testimony of Chief Timi Frank, it is clear and established that General Muhammadu Buhari committed a crime against Nigeria, aided and abetted by his party, the All Progressives Congress, in that they knowingly subverted the Nigerian economy and turned the then third fastest growing economy in the world to the present world headquarters for extreme poverty.

“It should be noted that General Buhari remains unrepentant in his lies and economic sabotage, as evidenced by his recent statement that he has lifted 5 million Nigerians out of poverty. A statement that is outrightly contradicted by the World Bank which revealed that poverty in Nigeria has now assumed ‘multi-dimensional’ status.

“We urge Nigerians to note that these economic gains were eroded, not by the vagaries of the world economy, but by deliberate sabotage of unpatriotic elements.

“The chickens are finally coming home to roost. Truth cannot remain buried for long. It took extraordinary courage on the part of a major actor in the gang up against Jonathan to tender a public apology and also to call on others to do same having realized what a grave mistake they made.

“I accept Chief Timi Frank’s apology on behalf of Former President Jonathan, who remains a frontline democrat, the face of democracy in Africa and a statesman with a forgiving heart. Dr. Jonathan has since put 2015 and conspiracies he suffered as President behind him.”








			
			Post Views: 
			103