Our attention has been drawn to a perceived sponsored video on Instagram credited to one G- Papa directed at Super Eagles Midfielder Etebo Oghenekaro.

G- Papa in the video claimed Etebo left his roots and forgot everything about Warri, immediately he made money, He also added that the Stoke City man has refused to give back to the club that raised him in Warri, Delta State.

Let me categorically state that the claims of G-Papa are not only false, but Malicious, destructive, defamatory, spiteful, venomous and evil.

There would have been no need for a response, but well meaning Nigerians who Etebo represents deserves to be abreast of some things, they also need to know that Etebo Oghenekaro Peter is a man who respects his roots and will never stop identifying and representing.

Firstly, as regards relocation, every individual has the fundamental right to move at any point in life, without certification from another individual, Etebo is not an exception, He is human.

Another scary thing Nigerians may not know is that one Mr. Joel Okolakpa, popularly known as Noja, the owner of Etebo’s youth team serially and consistently threatened to break Etebo’s legs if he steps into Warri, though Etebo reported to the Police and will not stop visiting Warri, whenever he is in the country,  Noja has consistently acted violently due to his own selfish interest and sense of entitlements.

Noja, in 2016 slapped Mr Eddie Ogbemudia, Etebo’s long time ally and representative in Etebo’s family house, when they requested to get the N3m share from the N10M Noja collected from Hon. Kunle Soname for Etebo’s move to CD Fereinse in Portugal, as earlier agreed in Senegal during the Africa Under 23 Cup Of Nations, despite also collecting a Highlander Jeep, Noja refused to pay Etebo till date and won’t stop threatening, basically, Noja feels Etebo is obligated to pay him monthly salaries.

It may shock you to read that Etebo Oghenekaro regularly paid 20 percent of his wages at Warri Wolves to Noja, even after Noja had collected transfer fees from Warri Wolves.

Etebo’s move to Las Palmas in Spain and Stoke City has generated more than a N100m naira for Noja’s club, Lord Honour FC, so I’m shocked to hear that He isn’t buying them jerseys.

Etebo, until recently personally sponsored trips and pay match bonuses to players of the club, as a way of giving back to the roots that brought him up, I really would not know why such a man with a good heart will be a subject of ridicule and attack.

Etebo has prioritised giving back to society, due to the fact that he is also a product of the street, through Etebo Oghenekaro Peter Foundation, which is in Warri, Delta State, He has spent over N30m in his pet project for humanity.

Through this Foundation, Public Schools across Delta State have also benefitted from the benevolence of Etebo, in July 2018, Schools in Delta state were visited by a team from the foundation, led by Etebo himself to distribute school items, in November 2018, more than ten thousand text books and other items were also distributed to another 64 primary Schools in Delta State.

Do I need to also mention the team’s visit to Kids Orphanage homes,? Widows of fallen heroes were also reached out to, among other money consuming projects.

Unfortunately, G-Papa obviously was either fed with the wrong information, or decided to be ignorant or bitterly interested in pulling down a pillar of support, he also said that a friend of Etebo had his wedding and he refused to show up, categorically I am stating that the man in question is not even Etebo’s friend, he is actually the team manager of his grassroot club, Mr Omodiagbe Usiaho the relationship existing between them is strictly professional, still at that, Etebo financially sponsored his wedding from the beginning to the end, but couldn’t attend because the following day was his own traditional marriage.

Let me state categorically that the video will not in anyway stop him from touching lives in his own little way, Etebo Oghenekaro loves the street, loves Warri and Delta State as a whole, His parents still resides in Delta State till date, and they represent him daily in reaching out to those in need, Etebo’s close friends can also attest to the fact that he is always available to be of help whenever they call on him

He contributed his quota to the education of a little school girl, Success, who was sent away from school some months back, there are also some assistance he has rendered, just like every other golden hearted individuals, which is better without the media hype.

Few weeks ago, he invited his friends John Ogu and Victor Osimhen to summer camp with Etebo sponsored by SpringSoca Academy in Lagos where they played and trained with hundreds of kids.

Oghenekaro  has also confirmed that arrangements are in top gear to stage a grassroot football competition in Warri, Delta State, details will be made public as soon as possible.

Oghenekaro is hereby restating his resolve and commitment to always identify with his people, he also appreciates everyone who has supported and still supporting his football career one way or the other.















			
			Post Views: 
			19