Barely months to the governorship election in Kogi state, a group within the All Progressives Congress (APC), Justice Forum/Buhari Support Group, has accused Governor Yahaya Bello of double registration in the permanent voters’ card.

In a statement, which was signed and made available to journalists in Abuja on Wednesday by the Forum’s Director of Media and Publicity, Mr. Atekojo Samson Usman, he said, the essence of the screening was to ensure that the party did not field a candidate that would be a subject of litigation.

They said, the allegation of double registration by Kogi State Governor late last year, which became an embarrassment to the party should not be allowed as the governor would be facing prosecution immediately he stepped down from the office.

The group pointed out that the offence of double registration of PVCs which Yahaya Bello committed “attracts a one-year prison term or a fine of N100, 000 or both upon conviction.”

They reminded the party that, “the Independent National Electoral Commission, which had sacked three of its officials for registering the governor twice last year, had said it could not take any action against the governor because he had immunity.”

The statement explained that APC’s anti-corruption fight had endeared the party to Nigerians in the last five years, hence, scaling Bello in the obvious double registration scandal which some persons have been punished amount to hypocrisy and selective justice by the ruling party.

“It’s in the public domain that the governor who is also an aspirant in the forthcoming elections in Kogi State was involved in double registration scam. Some persons who were found culpable have been punished, so, what happens to the accused?”

“Yahaya Bello should be disqualified during screening based on that. If he is allowed during the screening, then, something is wrong with the anti-corruption fight which is the slogan of APC and Nigerians are watching”, Justice Forum maintained.

The group further maintained that it was the responsibility of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to take decision in the interest of the party, rather than that of an individual, saying that the APC cannot afford to lose the state to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party.








			
			Post Views: 
			105