The electoral process was thrown into confusion by suspected thugs during the rerun election at Jato-Aka, Tse Akough PU 012, Yaav ward, Kwande Local Government Area of Benue state they invaded polling units, smashing ballot boxes.
Reports say voters fled the polling unit after the thugs led by one Lorver Yough allegedly slapped a PDP agent, Micheal Iornongo, allegedly using a club and machetes on him while other gang members broke the ballot box and snatched the voters register.
Meanwhile, fears are on the rise in the state capital as security operatives have blocked all major streets within Makurdi Township as part of measures to enforce the ban on movement order during the elections.
Armed security personnel were seen at Wurukum, High level, North Bank, Wadata market and other major streets in Makurdi to ensure compliance with the directive.
In another related development, some journalists on election duty during the supplementary polls in Kano State escaped being lynched by a mob on Saturday.
The incident happened at Suntulma Primary School in Gama ward of Nasarawa Local Government Area of the state, where angry thugs chased the newsmen for daring to cover happenings around the ward.
The newsmen had made efforts to interview some voters who were denied access to a polling unit in the ward. The act caught the attention of the thugs who chased them out of the place.
The newsmen took to their heels, and some reportedly fell to the ground several times. While some lost their valuables, others had their clothes torn.
One of them, name not mentioned, was said to have run into a mosque to escape the wrath of the angry thugs.
Meanwhile, some voters at Kagadama polling unit in Dass Local Government Area of Bauchi State have chased politicians away.
The incident happened at the ongoing supplementary election in the area.
The voters, who said they would not allow anybody deny them from electing the governor of their choice for the state, resisted any attempt by the politicians to come near the polling unit as soon as they sighted them.
They vowed to remain on the queue and ensure they cast their ballots for the candidate of their choice no matter what happens.