Share this on WhatsApp





Leaders of major groups in five regions in Nigeria have thrown their weight behind presidential candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, to drag President Muhammadu Buhari to court.

Atiku, who lost the February 23 presidential election to incumbent President Buhari, had claimed he was rigged out and vowed to challenge the outcome of the election in court.

The leaders under the aegis of Forum of Nigerian Leaders and Elders gave their backing for Atiku after reviewing events that took place during the presidential and National Assembly elections.

According to them, the polls “revealed massive irregularities and outright abuse of the electoral laws, the rules and regulations of INEC (Independent National Electoral Commission).”

They also claimed that security personnel on duty during the elections failed to maintain neutrality and operate within the highest standards of their calling.

They group therefore, in a statement issued and endorsed by Chief Edwin Clark, Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) leader; Professor Ango Abdullahi, convener, Northern Elders’ Forum (NEF); Chief Ayo Adebanjo, Afenifere leader; Chief John Nwodo, President General Ohanaeze and Dr Pogu Bitrus, President, Middle Belt Forum, the group said it supports Atiku’s position on the issue.

It said it views Atiku’s decision as “patriotic, responsible and ultimately the highest contribution to the democratic system.
Some other person would by now be soaking ‘baboons and dogs in blood’.”

The leaders went further to say that the Peace Accord signed by the presidential candidates “was ridiculed by deliberate and open abuse of organs of the state, the denial of rights of many citizens to vote and blatant abuse of all the commitments made by the administration.”

The forum then urged the judiciary to do justice to the challenge of the election outcome that will come before it, reminding it that the eyes of the world would be on them.

The groups from five regions had also endorsed Atiku to be the next Nigerian President during the electioneering campaigns.





Share this on WhatsApp