Share this on WhatsApp

The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has vowed to petition the United Nations (UN) and other global democratic institutions over the role the military played during the last presidential and legislative polls which it said led to killings in some parts of the country.
PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, made this known at the end of an expanded caucus meeting held at the party’s secretariat in Abuja, insisting that the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, won the election but had his mandate “stolen.”
Olognomdiuan also said the caucus resolved to support Atiku and the PDP in their resolve to contest the declaration of President Muhammadu Buhari of the APC as the winner of the election at the tribunal.
“Caucus commended Nigerians for refusing the harassment, intimidation and militarization of the electoral process and participating in the elections but noted that the mandate that was freely given to our candidate was stolen and as such the party and the candidate jointly resolved to go to the tribunal and to see it through to the end of what is permissible within our legal system to get back our mandate on behalf of Nigerians.
“Caucus further noted the role of the military in the February 23 elections and resolved that we will report the action of the military through a petition to the United Nations as well as other global democratic institutions on the role of our military in the February 23 elections,” he said.
The PDP presidential candidate had stated that the result of the presidential election was unacceptable to him and that he would challenge it in court.
Ologbondiyan also said the caucus reviewed the situation in Kano State, particularly, as it concerned the court decision that the PDP should organise a fresh rerun for its governorship candidate.
The party noted that an appeal had been filed against the judgement and it will continue to study and follow the situation as they arise.
Ologbondiyan noted that the South-South geopolitical zone has been militarised, adding that the APC was also plotting to rig the governorship and state Houses of Assembly elections.
“Caucus further raised issues about the harassment, intimidation and the cajoling of our members on the plot by the Buhari presidency as well as the APC to intimidate Atiku and the resolve of the PDP to go to court by insisting, blackmailing and saying that he should not go to court.
“We insist that our party and our candidate have resolved to seek legal redress on the stolen mandate,” Ologbondiyan said.
Share this on WhatsApp