Share this on WhatsApp

By Lanre Adesanya
Hon.Rasheed Makinde who was declared winner of the Saturday State House of Assembly polls, to represent Ifako Ijaiye constituency II for a second term,has pledged to improve more on his legislative competence to attract good dividend of democracy to his constituents and constituency.
The lawmaker who polled 18,307 to defeat his closest rival from the PDP 3,377 in his acceptance speech after his reelection, noted the second chance given to him by his constituents, translates to a fresh call for service which he is not taking for granted at all.
Makinde said that he is set to do more in the 9th Assembly to better the lots of his constituency and Lagos state.
“The mandate you have all given me again to serve for a second term will not be taken for granted.
“I will double my efforts to ensure more human friendly laws are made, dividends of democracy get more to the common man.
“I will also intensify my lobby for developmental projects to our dear constituency.
“I dedicate my victory to the good people of Ifako Ijaiye constituency II”.
The lawmaker however, showered towering encomiums on stakeholders of the party both the National,State and local government level,who seriously galvanized the victory recorded.
“I give God the glory for his mercies over me and my beloved. My appreciation also goes to the Brainbox and National Leader of our party – APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for his vision and drive over two decades now.
“Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, Chieftain of APC and the founder of the Mandate Movement who has consistently championed the cause of the progressives.
“Also worth a mention is a staunch loyalist of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, my Speaker Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, Alh. Abdullahi Enilolobo, Alh. S. A. Muhammed Baba ileogbo, and all G7 leaders, GAC member, Hon. (Dr)Waleeh Ipaye and other prominent leaders.
He cited that though the process of the elections was a bit delayed by INEC ad-hoc staff,which had and adverse effects on the turnout of eligible voters, those who believed in the electioneering processes still came out to cast their votes.
“I’m indeed very pleased with the people of my constituency Ifako Ijaiye constituency II, Ojokoro LCDA for believing strongly in our party, APC, and the governorship candidate, Babajide Olushola Sanwo-Olu and myself Hon. Rasheed Makinde as member Lagos State House of Assembly.
“The polls results shows we garnered a larger chunk of votes to defeat our opponents and we had little voided votes compared to the last elections.
“I specifically appreciate the Community, Religious groups, Traditionalists, Market men and Women, Tradesmen and Artisans, who mobilised themselves greatly for the elections”. Makinde reiterated.
Share this on WhatsApp