The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has dismissed the report that the body was under pressure to congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari on his re-election.
Some  online platforms had reported that “some influential people working closely with the Federal Government were mounting pressure on CAN leadership to pay a congratulatory visit to Buhari.”
The report quoted a source closed to CAN leadership as saying: “If you know the pressure mounted on CAN leadership that we, as a body, have to go and congratulate the president.”
The CAN leader, however, dismissed the report, saying it was the handiwork of saboteurs and enemies of progress, who did not wish the association well.
“Saboteurs who didn’t want us to come here (Aso Rock). We are old enough to know what to do and what not to do,’ said Ayorinde.
“If somebody like me after 60 years of age will be under pressure it means that my life would never have meaning again.
“But by the grace of God we have a meaningful life, I know what to do. By God’s grace He has prepared me well for this assignment.
“So, those distractors and those politicians in cassock should go and find better job to do,’’ he said.
Ayokunle noted that the CAN leadership was in the villa not only to congratulate the president on his re-election, but to remind him of the yearnings of Nigerians.
The cleric said that Nigerians wanted him to perform 100 per cent better than that of the first term.
He, therefore, advised the president that only the best Nigerians should be considered while constituting his new cabinet, stressing that he should do more in addressing socio-economic challenges facing the citizens.
“Now, he has mastered the job; he has mustered enough strengthen to be able to go full swing into action.
“We want him to do more on security- kidnappings almost everywhere and the issue of insurgency in the northeast, the insurgents should be silenced once and for all.
“These ethnic militias that have now moved to the northwest, which used to be peaceful, and they are now causing violence there – before they will grow wings their wings should be clipped completely,’’ he added

			
			Post Views: 
			85