Share this on WhatsApp
 
The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has alleged that the Buhari led All Progressives Congress (APC) government plans to unleash mayhem during Saturday’s Governorship and Houses of Assembly Elections.
Imo Ugochinyere, CUPP national spokesman, in a statement on Wednesday, said Nasarawa, Akwa Ibom, Sokoto, Anambra, Rivers , Taraba, Abia, Gombe and Delta States are to be “flooded with Mobile Police Officers from various parts of the country specifically for the purpose of helping the APC rig the elections and return the states to the APC.”
It also claimed that the entire Mobile Police units of Mopol 3 Enugu, 12 Minna, 21 FCT, 25 Azumini/Iwukem, and 45 FHQ Abuja are to move to Nasarawa State, while Mopol 22 Ikeja, 49 Epe and 23 FHQ Annex Lagos are all moving to help the APC rig Sokoto State.
The statement reads: “Furthermore, Mopol 2 Keffi Street Lagos, 5 Benin, 17 Akure and 20 Ikeja are to relocate to Akwa Ibom to be under the command of the cousin of Senator Godswill Akpabio who is the SARS Commander in Akwa Ibom State to rig elections in the State.
“Gombe State will receive their own rigging machine from Mopol 52 Chalawa and 58 Lafia, while the rigging squads to Abia State are to be moved from Mopol 29 Awka, 31 Asaba and 33 Ado-Ekiti. Delta State will be Mopol 19 Port Harcourt and 55 Aba, while Anambra State will be militarized by Mopol 28 Umuahia, 51 Oghara and 63 Ikorodu.
“In furtherance, the APC have resolved that polls will be shifted or disrupted in Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Delta, Enugu, Ebonyi, Benue and Taraba States so that military might will also be concentrated on those states on the rescheduled dates.
“The reasons will include card reader issues, sponsored violence, missing election materials, amongst others. While it is still mounting excessive pressure on the INEC Headquarters seeking the redeployment of the Akwa Ibom Resident Electoral Commissioner despite being served notice of the copy of the order of court restraining the INEC Chairman from redeploying the REC.
“We assertively demand of Nigerian voters and citizens in these various states to come out in mass and vote and protect their votes and their future against the APC. Citizens of Ondo State protected their votes so vigorously in 1983 that the political invaders had no option but to come in one way and disperse in 200 ways.
“We finally call on the international community to call the government to order and restrain them from such shameful acts. The deployment of security forces to areas with no report of danger while leaving citizens within areas of known danger to live at the mercy of criminals and marauders is most unconscionable and reprehensible.”
Share this on WhatsApp