Share this on WhatsApp





A former special adviser to the Lagos state governor on Food Security, now contesting for Kosofe constituency 1 seat in the Lagos state House of Assembly, Hon. Babatunde Okanlawon (OKLA) narrowly escaped death on Saturday when suspected political thugs invaded his constituency office in Mende, Maryland.

Narrating his ordeal, the All Progressives Congress candidate stated that the incident happened when youths in his constituency had organized a rally in his honour to create more awareness for  his candidature in next Saturday’s election. The rally, he said took them round all the communities in his constituency with the grand finale scheduled for Mende where he had his constituency office.

“The rally was quite peaceful, and we returned around 1pm with all my supporters dancing. I had stepped out of the office with the intention of retiring home when the Peoples’ Democratic Party’s candidate for the constituency, Moyosore Ogunlewe storm the area with busloads of thugs and two personnel of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps(NSCDC) who were armed.

Hon. Okanlawon who displayed two empty cartridges which he said were fired into his campaign office by the rampaging PDP thugs, explained that NSCDC officers who accompanied Ogunlewe to the area started shooting sporadically without any provocation.
“Three people were hit by stay bullets, with one of them sustaining serious gunshot wounds. Aina Idowu, one of the boys that got hit is now at LASUTH receiving treatment.  I have reported the case at the Mende Police Station, and waiting for them to take the necessary action, if however, nothing happens, I have decided to petition the Inspector General of Police.

“I learnt that one of the PDP thugs, Musiliu Osomo, who committed the dastardly act, was arrested by the Police on Saturday, but was later released. I’m still waiting for the police to invite the man behind the attack because we have eye witnesses who identified Moyosore Ogunlewe as the one who led the onslaught,” he said.

According to him, such violent attack has never happened in the constituency, “this is the height of gansterism, and we shall not allow such behaviours to go unpunished.”

Mother of one of the victims who sustained gunshot wounds, Mrs. Florence Aina, called on the police to investigate the attacks, adding that Mende has always enjoyed relative peace until the PDP thugs invaded on Saturday.

She said shops were looted during the attack and several gunshots fired into a church nearby. “The government must do something about this because the election is just few days away, apart from providing adequate security, the police must make sure all those behind the attack are arrested and prosecuted to serve as deterrents.”
Meanwhile, a call was put through to the Peoples’ Democratic Party candidate in the constituency, Moyosore Ogunlewe to hear his own side of the story, but his assistant who picked the phone said he’s not available to comment on the matter.







Share this on WhatsApp