African Women In Technology, Lagos Innovates Knowledge Series and Other Tech Events This Week
Ready to get your gears running this week? Well, Technext has collated a list of tech events you might want to be part of this week. These events come up between Monday, 25th March and Sunday, 31st March.
* Africa Netpreneur Prize Initiative Launching
The Africa Netpreneur Prize Initiative was established by the Jack Ma Foundation. The prize is aimed at supporting and inspiring the next generation of African entrepreneurs across all sectors, who are building a more sustainable and inclusive economy for the future.
Lagos State is set to play host to the official launch of Jack Ma’s Africa Netpreneur Prize Initiative organized by the Network of Incubators and Innovators in Nigeria (NINE) scheduled to hold on March 27, 2019.
The regional launching of the Africa Netpreneur Prize Initiative will be organised by the Network of Incubators and Innovators in Nigeria (NIIN). The prize will be hosting a pitch competition across Africa culminating in a finale where ten finalists will compete for US$1 million in total prize money over the next 10 years.
Venue: Zone Tech Park, Gbagada, Lagos.
Date: Wednesday, 27 March, 2019.
Time: 12 pm
*Lagos Innovates Knowledge Series: Pitch Practice
Crucial to the survival of every startup is the ability to sell itself to customers, investors, even potential clients. The act of doing this is called pitching. This Knowledge Series session would help startups learn how to make good pitches and the techniques to be used for effective pitching.
The Knowledge Sharing Series returns this month with @yelebademosi and @LAkintobi. Together, they will help you take your startup pitch game to the next level! Register now as we have only 50 slots!
Speakers at this events would include Yele Badamosi, Director of Binance Labs and Lamide Akintobi, an award winning journalist and television personality.
Venue: Workstation, Victoria Island, Lagos.
Date: Thursday, 28 March, 2019.
Time: 5 pm.
* African Women in Tech
The African Women in Tech (West Africa Conference) is organised to provide attendees with a unique combination of deep-dive, hands-on tech workshops, information and discussions about education, entrepreneurship, careers in tech, and how to pursue them.
Jumoke Dada. will be talking about Branding and Social Media at the African Women In Technology-Nigeria RSVP Now!
Asides this, attendees would also get to network with other attendees in various aspects and careers in technology.
Venue: Zone Tech Park, Gbagada, Lagos.
Date: Friday, March 29, 2019
Time: 8 am.
*Wema Hackaholics
Hackaholics is a radical gathering of developers, web designers and creative thinkers organised by Wema Bank. It aims at building products and developing solutions to improve financial services and other sectors of Nigerian life.
Here is an opportunity to contest for $10,000 in #WemaHackaholics
Don’t just be a looker, be a doer. Sign up at http://www.wemabank.com/hackaholics #HackaHolics
Innovations are to solve problems in personal finance, big data, retail banking and mobile payments. They would also tackle risk management, currency and stock trading, investment, regulatory compliance as well as health and the environment. Winning solution gets $10,000 prize.
Venue: Ilupeju, Lagos.
Date: Friday, 29 – Sunday, 31 March, 2019.
Time: 10 am