The US relations with Turkey was thrown into crisis in 2016 over the fathom coup in Turkey in which the Turkish Government accused Fetullah Gulen of being the sponsor of the coup to oust President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The diplomatic crisis deepened a year later over the imprisonment of a US Pastor, Andrew Brunson, which precipitated tit-for-tat sanctions that hit the local lira currency.
Brunson was released in October last year and relations improved.
But Erdogan’s decision to buy S-400 missile systems from Russia provoked warnings from Washington that the deal may affect its sale of US-made F-35 fighter jets to Turkey and trigger more sanctions.
Turkey’s push to buy S-400 missile systems raised questions among NATO allies over alliance equipment as well as concerns over the relationship between Erdogan and Russian President Vladimir Putin..
Ties were already strained over US support of Kurdish forces in Syria, which Ankara brands as a “terrorist group” tied to the PKK, which is fighting against the Turkish State.
Subsequently, the Topuz controversy over his formal espionage charge in court in January. He is accused of contact with police officers and a former prosecutor suspected of links to the Gulen movement according to Anadolu state news agency.
Topez initial arrest in 2017 provoked diplomatic crisis with both Turkey and the US suspending visa services until they stepped back.
“This has been a big deal in the Turkish-US relations, but Americans have reversed course from an earlier decision to impose visa bans and have decided to pursue a quiet diplomacy,” said Asli Aydintasbas, a fellow with the European Council on Foreign Relations.
Since the failed 2016 coup against Erdogan, tens of thousands of people have been arrested over suspected links to Gulen and more than 100,000 people have been sacked or suspended from public sector jobs.
Gulen denies the coup accusations.
Ankara has been criticised by its Western allies and human rights activists over the crackdown they say has undermined democracy. But Turkish officials say the raids are needed to clear Gulen’s influence from state institutions.

			
			Post Views: 
			99