Embattled governor of Ogun state, Ibikunle Amosun is in dire state at the moment following the decision of his party, the All Progressives Congress, warning banks not to honour any last-minute loans, overdrafts and other financial instruments made by the governor two months to the expiration of his tenure.
Recall that though a member of the APC, the governor, Amosun, who won a senatorial seat on the platform of the APC, had backed the governorship candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) in the state, Mr. Adekunle Akinlade, who lost.
He was subsequently suspended by the party’s National Working Committee, who also recommended his expulsion from the party.
In a statement signed by the party’s publicity secretary in the state, Tunde Oladunjoye, the party warned
The warning was issued by the All Progressive Congress (APC) in a statement warned any institution that grants such requests “does so at its own risk”.
The full statement by the APC reads thus; “It has come to our notice that the outgoing governor has been exerting pressures on banks and financial institutions to grant frivolous loans, overdrafts and other instruments immediately Prince Dapo Abiodun was declared Governor-Elect.
“We are equally aware that files and other sensitive governments’ documents are being moved out of government offices on the order of the outgoing Governor, His Excellency, Senator Ibikunle Amosun.
“It is therefore important to let it be known to the concerned public officers that it is part of their duties to protect public properties, including files, documents and information at their disposal.
“As anything contrary to this will be running afoul of the laws and their oath of office. The allegiance of the civil servants is to Ogun State and not to any individual, no matter who.
“As for the banks, we want to state categorically that the incoming administration believes so much in the rule of law and due process. Therefore, the administration will not honour any obligation that did not follow due process or any loans that did not receive the prior approval of the State House of Assembly.
“According to the Federal Bureau of Statistics, Ogun State’s Internally Generated Revenue has increased by 590 per cent in eight years totaling N74,835,979,000.51 (seventy four billion, eight hundred and thirty five million, nine hundred seventy nine thousand naira and fifty one kobo).
“Why the outgoing administration still wants ‘injury-time’ loans despite those already incurred, beats one’s imagination and leaves much to be desired. The incoming administration will not honour such shady loans.”