Following the deadly shootings at two mosques masterminded by a 28-year-old white supremacist in the City of Christchurch, New Zealand, which left 49 dead, a Nigerian Twitter user has called for repeat of such terrorist attack on Nigeria’s national mosque located in Abuja, the country’s capital territory.
The Twitter user with the handle, @LegitChidi, said the terrorist is needed in the Abuja central mosque. On Friday, March 15, a popular Nigerian Twitter user, Dr Joe Abah, made a post concerning the the New Zealand mosque shootings, calling on a condemnation of “all forms of extremism: religious, racial, ideological or political.”
However, while other Twitter users reacting to the post also joined in condemning the attack, a certain user with the handle, @LegitChidi, said the New Zealand terrorist should ‘shift’ to Abuja central mosque.
“Let them shift to Abuja central mosque abeg..we need them there,” he posted. Abah also noticed the comment and promised to report the cto Twitter and the Nigerian security forces.
A further check shows that @LegitChidi may have pulled down his Twitter account. However, a screenshot of his profile earlier shown above indicates his location is Bayelsa state.
The Abuja National Mosque is the national mosque of Nigeria.
The mosque was built in 1984 and is open to the non-Muslim public, except during congregational prayers.
Meanwhile, the suspect arrested in connection to the New Zealand attack has since been charged to court. Referred to as a white supremacist and Australian terrorist, 28-year-old Brenton Tarrant on Saturday, March 16, appeared in a New Zealand court for being the prime suspect of the Christchurch mosque shootings.
According to Agency report, more allegations will be instituted against Tarrant who is to reappear in court on Friday, April 5, alongside two of his accomplices who have been remanded in custody without plea.
The mayor of Christchurch, Lianne Dalziel, decried the unthinkable crime and expressed her heartfelt concern for the victims of the attack.




ReplyReply allForward




			
			PV: 
			0