A former Abia governor, Dr Orji Uzo Kalu has threatened to run for the Senate President seat if his party, the All Progressives Congress, fail to zone the Deputy Senate President position to the Southeast in the interest of equity and justice.

Kanu who has indicated interest to contest for the position of the Deputy Senate President in the soon to be constituted 9th National Assembly disclosed this while speaking with newsmen on Wednesday at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos.

He noted that he was aware that the APC, which had the majority in the Senate, had zoned the senate president position to the North-East and the Deputy Senate President to the North-West.

Kalu said: “I am a very loyal party man. The party has zoned the senate presidency position to the North-East and I want to respect the party’s will but the second position is what we are not going to allow to leave the South-East.

“So, as far as I am concerned, in the South-East, I am going to run openly on the floor of the House for the position of Deputy Senate President.

“I am not going to listen to the party neither will I listen to anybody. Nobody that wants to be the Deputy Senate President is more loyal than I am to the party.

According to him, Article 50 of the Constitution and Article One of the constitution make it clear that the members of the National Assembly in-House can elect their principal officers.

He said it was only fair that the position was retained in the South-East, stressing that both President Muhammadu Buhari and APC Chairman, Mr Adams Oshiomhole, were well aware of this.

“The chairman of the party is from South-South. The President is from North-West. The Vice-President is from South-West and also the Senate President will come from North-East.

“Whether it is Senators Ahmed Lawal or Alli Ndume, this will be decided on the floor of the House.

“So, for me, the tripod in Nigeria is Ibo, Yoruba and Hausa and we are going to get the deputy senate president and I will fight on the floor of the House like no other person has fought.

“That is not challenging the party but this is about looking for justice. Buhari said recently after the elections that he will be addressing issues of injustice and this is part of the issue,” Kalu said.

He further maintained that he was qualified for the position having being a former member of the Federal House of Representatives from 1991 to 1993 and also a two-time governor.

Kalu said: “I know the nook and crannies of how legislators operate. I have dealt with them and I am not a new comer. So, it is going to be impossible to edge me out or edge a whole zone out by claiming we are new comers.

He, however, warned that he would be forced to contest for the position of the Senate President if the APC failed to do the needful.








			
			Post Views: 
			78
			
 

        


        
                        
            
                                            

            SHARE
            
	            Facebook
	            Twitter
	            
	            
	            
            tweet !function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs");            Previous articleFayemi Solicits Ekiti Obas’ Cooperation in Fight against Rape, Land GrabbingNext articleInvestigate cases of thuggery in re-run elections, Amnesty tells FG            Adminhttp://www.nationaldailyng.com