Share this on WhatsApp





Shareholders of Access Bank Plc and Diamond Bank Plc on Tuesday unanimously approved the merger of both financial institutions aimed at creating a formidable force.

The shareholders gave the approval at an Extraordinary General Meetings (EGMs) of both banks held in Lagos.

Herbert Wigwe, Access Bank Chief Executive Officer, told the shareholders at the EGM that the merger with Diamond Bank enables Access Bank to acquire a bank with 17 million retail customers and the most viable mobile payment platform.

He said the bank, after the merger, would attract more opportunities such as trade finance from international partners.

“With the final merger of both banks and the status of the resulting entity as ‘the largest bank in Africa’s largest economy,’ this greatly bolsters the bank’s brand, opening doors of opportunity both in local and international markets,” he said.

Wigwe said the merger was expected to produce the largest banking group in Africa based on its number of customers with more than 29 million customers.

“The resulting entity which will maintain the brand name Access Bank, but with Diamond Bank colors, will have more than 29 million customers, 13 million of which are mobile customers,” he said.

Wigwe said the bank would be a continental force with presence in 12 countries, 3,100 ATMS and nearly 32, 000 Point of Sale.


He said Diamond bank merging with “Access Bank also means, the former’s customers can enjoy access to the latter’s strong balance sheet, ubiquitous presence and solid operational structure.”

“The enlarged Access Bank will serve 27 million retail customers, almost double the number customers of any other bank in Nigeria and more than any other bank in Africa, “ Wigwe said.

He noted that the enlarged Access Bank’s breath scale and product range will further accelerate the financial inclusion agenda that Access Bank and Diamond Bank had pursued separately.

Wigwe, however, assured enlarged shareholders of the bank that dividend would be more robust and consistent after the exercise.

Mr Adebayo Adeleke of Independent Shareholders Association (ISAN) commended the management of Access Bank for not shortchanging shareholders on the scheme of the merger.

Adeleke said that the shareholders were in support of the plan that would give birth to one of the largest bank in Africa.

“We are here to make sure we sanction this wedding and hope to see a marriage of a formidable force,” he said.








Share this on WhatsApp