The ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, has said it has no hand in the refusal of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, to issue certificate of return to Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha.
The National Vice-Chairman of APC (South-South), Chief Hilliard Eta, made the denial on Saturday, adding that the governor will be recommended for expulsion from the party.
It would be recalled that Okorocha had said INEC’s action was an insult to his person and a mockery of Nigeria’s democracy.
He also alleged that INEC colluded with some of his political enemies to deny him his mandate.
“I think it is a script the Resident Electoral Commissioner is playing. My election was peaceful, free and fair. All that is happening now is a script carefully planned in Abuja”, Okorocha said.
Reacting to Okorocha’s comment, Eta said: “The APC has nothing to do with Okorocha’s predicament with INEC over Certificate of Return. The party has got nothing to do with the INEC’s decision.”
The APC’s national vice-chairman also said the party would recommend the expulsion of Okorocha and others currently on suspension from the APC for alleged anti-party activities.
Eta alleged the suspended people were painting the party in a bad light.
“It is incorrect for him (Okorocha) to think that the party has a hand in the matter. It is characters like Okorocha that are giving us a bad name. Adam Oshiomhole has given a proper and distinguished leadership style. Unfortunately, characters like Okorocha, Osita Okechukwu and Usani (Usani) are giving us a bad name.
“We are going to recommend them for expulsion to the party’s National Executive Committee,” he added.
It would be recalled that Okorocha, a senatorial candidate of the APC, was announced winner of the Imo West senatorial election held on February 23 by the Returning Officer, Prof Francis Ibeabuchi, in Orlu, after polling 97,762 votes to defeat his closest rival of the Peoples’ Democratic Party, Mr Jones Onyereri, who scored 68,117 votes.
Ibeabuchi however made a U-turn, saying the results for the district and the declaration that followed were done when he felt he was no longer safe.

			
			Post Views: 
			92