In a bid to tackle child defilement and rapists in Ekiti State, the government has resolved to put stringent measures that would serve as check on sexual violence.
The government would henceforth conduct compulsory psychiatric test and publish the names and photographs of offenders on the website of the Ministry of Justice.
The names of such offenders, according to the government, would also be announced on the state-owned radio and television, while the monarch of the town the culprits hailed from would be alerted for them to get information about his status.
While addressing  journalists in Ado Ekiti on Monday, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Barr. Wale Fapohunda expressed worries that the menace kept increasing despite high number of convictions recorded in the state.
He said the governor,  Dr Kayode Fayemi was miffed by increasing cases of sexual violence and that there was need for proactive actions to nip the situation in the bud.
Fapohunda said the new measures put in place will support the aggressive prosecution and exclusion of offenders from governor’s prerogative of mercy that were already in place.
“The additional measures put in place include pasting the photographs of convicted offenders in prominent public spaces in their communities and their local government headquarters.
” Issuing an advisory to the traditional rulers of the offender’s communities on the status of the offender. Uploading the sex offenders photograph on the website of the Ministry of Justice.
“Showing photographs of sex offenders on Ekiti State Broadcasting Service, announcing their names on radio and television.
“Compulsory Psychiatric Test for all persons of whom the Director of Public Prosecution has issued a case to answer legal advice for the offence of child defilement. This also includes persons standing trials “, he said.
The Commissioner disclosed that the government would take actions that will deprive offenders of their rights to dignity.
Fapohunda stated that the government was aware that conviction alone will not solve the problem, promising that public education and awareness would be stepped up to conscientise and sensitise the people.