Seizes 1.8 tons of cannabis


     
Operatives of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), intercepted narcotic dealers in Ogun State and subsequently, arrested the suspects who were on transit with 1.8 tons of some substances suspected to be Cannabis Sativa (Indian hemp) along Imeko/Ilara axis of Imeko-Afon Local Government Area, Ogun State.
The Public Relations Officer, of Ogun Area Command of the Nigeria Customs, ASC1 Abdulahi Maiwada, narrated that substances were technically packed in various sizes of 176 sacks, 120 book-size packs as well as 21 coconut-size packs, transited into Nigeria from a neighbouring country.
At a handing over ceremony held at the Command in Abeokuta, the Area Controller, Comptroller Michael Ojo Agbara, noted that arrest of the suspects was the result of the commitment, dedication, diligence, resilience and humility demonstrated by Operatives of the Command.
Comptroller Agbara remarked: “the Command through a magnificent high level of intelligence network established, gave the information which propelled the operatives to smartly descend on some vehicles laden with rice packed along Imeko/Ilara axis suspected to be carrying Cannabis sativa. During the operation, no suspect could be apprehended.”
Comptroller Agbara further highlighted: “We have a total of 176 sacks of Cannabis, 120 book-size packs and 21 coconut-size packs, with a total combined weight of 1.8 tons of the illicit drugs.
“We are, therefore, handing over the impounded items to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) as part of the synergy we have with the agency in Ogun State, to ensure further inspection and assessment of the drugs.”
“We put the country interest first, Wherever we make any arrest that falls on the NDLEA’s line of duty, we are duty bound to hand over to the agency.
“Likewise if the agency sees anything of our interest, the agency will inform us and handover to us, because we have that mutual understanding.
“That is why we are doing all that we can to rid Ogun State and its environs of all dangerous substances harmful to health that are used by criminals or men of the underworld to undermine the security of the nation,” Comptroller Agbara further stated.