Real Madrid captain Sergio Ramos was forced to intervene in a training ground slanging match between club legend Marcelo and under-fire coach Santiago Solari.
The-out-of-favour Brazilian’s is said to have made the comments in the build-up to Sunday’s match with Valladolid.
Marcelo reportedly told Solari “now you are going to s*** me” as the temperature continues to rise at the Bernabéu.
Such was the reported level of disrespect, skipper Ramos was forced to step in despite doubt over his future at the club, it has been claimed.
It is suggested Marcelo snapped “Ahora vais a mamármela” towards the end of Saturday’s session.
The Brazilian made the crude remark and relations between the full-back and members of the squad have now become strained, Spanish specialists AS suggest.
He was brought on for the final four minutes against Valladolid, the simple 4-1 victory, and the 30-year-old is known to be keen to leave after seeing the move as an insult. 
Juventus have been linked with a summer swoop but after 12 years at the club he may wait it out to see if changes are made.
He has won four La Liga titles and four Champions League winners’ medals since arriving from Fluminense in 2007.
The cameo at the weekend further inflamed things as Real’s miserable season shows little sign of improvement despite getting back to winning ways.
It has been reported that Madrid may still sack Solari this week regardless of their positive result.
Solari was asked it may have been his final match and he said: “I’m not here to make those evaluations. I am planning the next training session.”
He added: “It was a difficult week for everyone, also for the players -the first 20 or 25 minutes reflected that and it cost us.
“We dug in during the early stages and in the rest of the game the players came back in to it. It was a difficult game and the players reacted and showed their character. This is a group of great players and people with big character.
“This victory was built on commitment and reaction to adversity. The players put all their effort in to achieve our goal.
“We came to a difficult stadium against a team in need of points who made things difficult for us.
“This fills us with pride because it is a group of big professionals.”
But Solari may still get the boot with Jose Mourinho reportedly lined up for an incredible return.
The Argentinian coach added: “There’s lots of noise surrounding us at the moment and that’s to be expected after this last week.
“It’s been a difficult spell but it’s important to see a reaction and to show character in adversity.”