Share this on WhatsApp

The All Progressives Congress, APC, is conspiring a fresh plot to nail the President of the Senate and former Kwara State Governor, Dr. Bukola Saraki. The plot is woven around the newly elected Governor of the state.  Accordingly, the governor-elect of Kwara, Alhaji Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, has vowed to relate with the Police to ensure that those implicated in Offa robbery were promptly prosecuted.
Abdulrazaq at a media briefing on Sunday night in Ilorin where he delivered his acceptance speech to the All Progressive Congress, APC, supporters insisted that he would ensure that the judicial process was logically concluded and perpetrators brought to book.
The emergent governor stated that the state had become so insecure to the extent that banking operations had been suspended in the entire Kwara South senatorial zone, after the Offa bank robbery.
“This development is seriously affecting the economic development in the zone. We will interface with the Police to address the challenge of insecurity
“The Offa robbery where 33 people were killed, based on police investigation was linked to top government officials,’’ Abdulrazaq stated.
Meanwhile, Senate President Saraki has been on trial over the Offa bank robbery. Interestingly, the case of being handled already by the federal government, why it is becoming a major policy concern of the new governor is disturbing to many stakeholders in Kwara State who feel the APC is taking the political war in Kwara State too far.
The emergent governor promised that his administration will be accountable to the people and will not steal or loot the state’s treasury.
The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, had declared Abdulrazaq of the APC winner of the Saturday governorship election having polled 331,546 votes to defeat Abdulrazaq Atunwa of the Peoples Democratic Party,(PDP, who polled 114,754 votes.
APC also won all the 24 seats in the Kwara House of Assembly.
Abdulrazaq reiterated that said his government would be people-oriented because it was the first time since 1999 that Kwara peoples’ votes counted and their will come to pass.
Abdulrazaq said that in line with the party manifesto, his administration would place priority attention to security, agriculture, education and infrastructure development.
He said that Kwara being an agrarian state, his administration would pay attention to farming and agro processing.
He narated that the state would among other crops, increase cashew production and processing for export to create employment and increase internally generated revenue.
“We will set up a transition committee that will interface with the government and we will have a forensic audit of the paying system to formulate new policies.
“We will organise health care summit. Education summit and special summit on how to improve the state infrastructure,’’ he said.
Share this on WhatsApp