Share this on WhatsApp



The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress has announced that Senator Tokunbo Afikuyomi is no longer a member of the APC and not serving the interest of the party at any level, either state or national.
The APC in a statement issued today by its Publicity Secretary, Dr. Joe Igbokwe today in Lagos, said that Afikuyomi is a member of Accord Party engaging in clandestine activities to undermine the APC in Lagos so as to promote opposition politicians in the process leading to the governorship election.
According to Igbokwe, the party says it is aware of Afikuyomi’s activities and his pretension of being an APC member while he is an Accord Party member who is fully committed to the promotion of interests inimical to APC’s interests.
The party however cited the fact that Afikuyomi’s right to association is inalienable but unsuspecting members of APC should be wary of his deceptive antics.
“We believe it is within the rights of Afikuyomi to work for any interests that suit his fancy, we feel obliged to warn faithful &loyal APC members that Afikuyomi is not one of us, contrary to the impression he gives to unsuspecting party members.
“While we don’t grudge Afikuyomi his rights to choose and work for any platform or candidate of his choice, we warn him to desist from claiming to be a member of our great party and proudly own up to the interest of whomever he is working for. We know Afikuyomi as a member of Accord Party and the Lagos State exco of APC does not know him as one of us as we are aware he has left our party for Accord Party.
“We therefore alert members of our party and anyone dealing with Afikuyomi to clearly know that he is not a member of APC. We want this notice to be spread among our members in every nook and cranny of Lagos so as to guard against being misled by Afikuyomi and those he is working for.
“While Lagos APC salutes Lagosians for their impregnable fidelity to APC, we want them to look for impostors and fifth columnists who have promised their masters that they will assist their doomed campaigns and interests by sowing confusion in APC.
“This disclaimer on Afikuyomi is an effort to dispel such damned efforts. We urge Lagosians to stick firmly with an APC that has served them so well in Lagos and which had gotten a pan-Nigerian renewal of mandate to give the country continued good, honest and fruitful
governance for the next four years”,Igbokwe said.




Share this on WhatsApp