The All Progressives Congress, APC, leader in Delta State, Olorogun O’tega Emerhor, has clarified that Senator Ovie Omo-Agege was never the candidate of the party in Delta Central senatorial district in the 2019 elections. He declared that, “Omo-Agege was at no time the candidate of the party nor was he at any time the Senator-elect.”
Emerhor acknowledged the judgment of the Federal High Court, Asaba, which upheld the legality of the Chief Cyril Ogodo-led executive as the authentic APC executive in Delta State.
Emerhor in a statement indicated that the mainstream of the APC in Delta State which he led produced the Ogodo led executive and accommodates over 70 per cent of leaders and members of the party alongside over five governorship aspirants in the state.
On the court judgment, Emerhor, who emerged as candidate for Delta Central under the Ogodo led executive, declared: “The Ogodo-Exco produce by the mainstream has always been the authentic executive. We only had a period when an illegal Exco was foisted on the party. What the court did on its Monday ruling was just to restore the legal Exco into its proper position.
“I emerged as the Delta Central senatorial candidate against Senator Ovie Omo-Agege who emerged from the Prophet Jones Erue Exco which the court has now declared illegal. Legally and physically, you can’t build anything on nothing! Omo-Agege built his candidature on nothing and it has given way and has collapsed. But this is beyond just me and Omo-Agege. We the mainstream also had a governorship candidate, Prof Pat Utomi, 3 senatorial candidates, 10 house of Rep and 29 house of Assembly candidates! This Court ruling is for all of them! If for anything, it will be on record that they were the authentic candidates not anyone else.
“This case is testing the rule of law and party due process. APC won a number of positions during the general elections. Recall that the Asaba high Court on October 17th 2018, restrained the APC national not to submit any candidates list to INEC and INEC not to accept any candidates list from the APC before the determination of the case. Any list APC went ahead to submit and INEC accepted respectively was in contempt of court order.
So, legally and in reality, Omo-Agege was at no time the candidate nor was he at any time the Senator-elect. Same for the other positions were APC won in Delta State. Not until the court ruling on Monday when the court authenticated me and others from the Ogodo Exco primaries can anyone legally claim to be the Senator-elect or any other position in Delta APC.”
It was noted that Omo-Agege, a lawyer, cannot undermine the consequences of the judgment. The so-called consent judgment they keep building their hope on only dealt with the congress election of wards and Local Government Area Executives and not the primaries of candidates and in any case, was dealt a death blow at their own appeal to the appeal court in Benin and at the Asaba federal high court. Omo-Agege knows I’m now the Senator-elect!