Police operatives from Force headquarters, Abuja have rescued a five (5) year old girl, Aisha Ibrahim who was kidnapped on 16th March, 2019 at Ibudu 1 Area, Warri, Delta State by unknown persons and taken to Nasarawa State.
Aisha was rescued unhurt by the Police at Bukan-Kwatu, Lafia, Nasarawa State.
She was reunited with her father “Mr Ibrahim Abdulmalik” of Gibori Street, Ibudu Market, Warri, Delta State on 20th March, 2019 at the Force Headquarters, Abuja.
The obviously elated father was exclaiming “I thank God o! I thank Police o! I have even lost hope! I just received a call I should come to Force Headquarters to collect my pikin!.
Mr Abdulmalik showered encomiums on the Nigeria Police Force for the intense follow-up which led to the quick rescue of his daughter who was kidnapped while returning from school on the said day.
A statement by ACP Frank Mba, Force Public Relations Officer said “On receipt of the information, Police detectives from the Force Headquarters, Abuja, acting on the directives of the Inspector General of Police, Ag. IGP M.A Adamu, swung into action which led to the arrest of the suspects and rescue of the victim.
“The two (2) suspects are Abdullahi Abubakar 30yrs and his mother, Mrs  Salihu 62yrs old, both of Bukan-Kwatu, Lafia, Nasarawa State.
“Abdullahi Abubakar the principal suspect, who is well-known to the family of the victim, under the pretext of helping the victim to cross the road, abducted her and took her from Warri, Delta State to Lafia, Nasarawa State where he kept her with his mother (second suspect) while he contacted the parents of the victim for ransom.
“The suspects have made useful statements to the Police on the roles they played in the kidnap of young Aisha.
“Efforts are ongoing to apprehend other persons, particularly one Inusah Ibrahim 58yrs of No. 7 UCC Road, Hausa Quarters, Warri, Delta State, connected to the crime.
Meanwhile,  the Inspector General of Police, Ag. IGP M.A Adamu, has observed that parents and guardians should be aware that most criminal harms done to children, including child stealing, child trafficking, rape, defilement, abduction, kidnap etc, are usually carried out by persons they are familiar with.
He therefore advised that Parents and Guardians should pay close attention to their children/wards especially on their movements to and fro school in order to prevent any untoward situation that might endanger or bring the children to harm’s way.




ReplyReply allForward