Technology training institute, Semicolon, has launched its training program; the Semicolon Techpreneurship Program, to help tech enthusiast develop tech solutions for everyday problems.
Semicolon is an innovation hub looking to make Nigeria home to a thriving technology community that designs and develops innovative solutions to problems faced by Nigeria and the world.
Located in Yaba, Lagos, the institute prides itself as a ‘refinery for local talent and innovative ideas’.
Having explored Silicon Valley in San Francisco, Semicolon CEO, Sam Immanuel, says he believes that talent can be found everywhere. He also believes that the growing youth population could be an asset if empowered with the right skills and opportunities. He therefore emphasized the need for Nigeria to look towards developing human capital as a fulcrum for the development of the country, a challenge which Semicolon is already taking on.
The Semicolon Techpreneurship Program is a one-year intensive program with which the innovation hub looks to develop Nigerian software engineers and provide them with unique learning and hands-on project experience.
The program is currently in its first cohort. The course curriculum focuses on developing skills in entrepreneurship, business management, design thinking and core software engineering. By undergoing this one-year program, the trainees quickly improve their skills and expand their capabilities as technology professionals and entrepreneurs.
According to Semicolon’s Learning Experience Manager, Titi Akinola, the curriculum has been put together by highly experienced technology professionals and upon completion of the program, the trainees would have been empowered to develop new solutions to local and global problems.
“We are on the lookout for passionate Nigerians who are interested in solving problems with technology as leverage and are committed to completing the program. We’re also building a community of innovators in Nigeria. Beyond the program, we want to be able to connect with tech enthusiasts and professionals across the country. And we intend to encourage collaboration through our community events.”
Semicolon also acts as an incubator for innovative technology. All students will work on technology projects, based either on student ideas or partner companies’ initiatives. Semicolon seeks to identify the most viable solutions and bring them to reality by providing early technical support, and connecting entrepreneurs with seed funding and mentorship.
In addition to building a network among its students, Semicolon also provides networking opportunities for technical innovators in Nigeria to connect and collaborate with each other, through regular events hosted at the Semicolon campus and by facilitating partnerships with existing innovative communities within the Nigerian tech space.
Semicolon is backed by a board of directors that includes former US ambassador to Nigeria Amb. Terry Mcculley; tech and business executives, Mike Bateman and Folake Ani-Mumuney. Its advisory board includes Professor Kiumi of the University of Michigan; Professor Kunle Olukotun of Stanford University; Professor Folarin Erogbogbo of San Jose State University; and Dapo Akintunde, a leading Industrial Designer.