The State leadership of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) in Enugu, has affirmed the suspension of Osita Okechukwu, Director General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON) by the APC National Working Committee (NWC) led by the national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole.  The State APC subsequently suspended Chairman of Eke Ward, Udi Local Government Area, Enugu State, Philip Egechukwu and 26 members of his executive who challenged the decision of Oshiomhole and the NWC to suspend Okechukwu in Abuja.
They were suspended for issuing a statement ordering APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomole to quickly reverse the suspension of the Director General of the Voice of Nigeria, Osita Okechukwu, who is from the ward.
The Egechukwu-led executive had on Sunday after its meeting in Eke ordered for the reversal of Okechukwu’s suspension by the National Working Committee (NWC) over allegation of anti-party activities, arguing that it was done in bad fate, and contrary to the provision of the party’s constitution.
APC State Chairman, Dr. Ben Nwoye, in a statement on Monday in Enugu, indicated that the party apologized to the National Chairman over the utterances of the suspended members, saying that a ward executive has no authority under the party’s Constitution to speak for the leadership of the party in the state.
The State Chairman condemned the ward chairman for ordering the national chairman of his party to quickly reverse a decision that was taken by a higher body such as NWC of the party without recourse to the party leadership in the state.
Nwoye warned APC members in Enugu State engaging in misconducts to desist from doing so as APC under his watch in the state would no longer tolerate indiscipline or unnecessary rascality.
“This morning we are forced to respond to a press statement from the Chairman of Eke Ward, Philip Egechukwu, where it is alleged that he is ordering the National Chairman to reverse the suspension of the DG of VON.
“First, the Enugu State APC apologizes to the office of the National Chairman and the National Working Committee over the unguided statement.
“That particular press statement was not only a clear violation of the party’s Constitution but an act of insubordination and indiscipline.
“He has no authority whatsoever, to speak for Enugu State APC, or to express opinion with regards to the ongoing investigation of anti-party activities which has led to suspension of Okechukwu,” the Enugu APC State Chairman declared.  
Nwoye acknowledged that Okechukwu,s suspension followed a petition from Enugu State to the national secretariat in 2018  over his alleged anti-party activities which he has been engaged in with impunity.
 

			
			Post Views: 
			250