Share this on WhatsApp
Telecom giant, MTN has fixed the second half of 2019 for listing on the Nigerian Stock Exchange after several months of postponement due altercations with regulatory bodies in the country over fines and alleged evasion of taxes running into billions of Naira.

MTN made this disclosure in statement on Thursday, as its results showed a total revenue of 37,971,000,000 South African rand (N965.3bn).

“MTN plans to list by introduction on The Nigerian Stock Exchange during the first half of 2019 and is looking to simplify the capital structure ahead of this listing,” MTN said.

“The Company’s listing on the Exchange will create a new telecoms asset class for investors and provide an opportunity for a wider group of Nigerians to participate in our investment story.”

“This will be achieved via a listing by introduction and will be followed by a public offer once market conditions are conducive. Over time, and subject to market conditions, we anticipate that the participation of Nigerians in the ownership of the business will increase from around 20% to 35%.”

MTN increased its mobile subscriber base in Nigeria by another six million people, bringing its tally to 58 million subscribers nationwide.
Ferdi Moolman CEO, MTN Nigeria said “In 2018 we rebuilt the base; adding another six million Nigerians to our network, giving a total of 58 million people access to worldwide communication services”.

“This growth was built on our sustained focus on customer centric delivery – ensuring that customers get much more value for their money.

“This included the deployment of proactive interventions to improve customer experience, together with the enhancement of network quality and coverage, and the optimization of our services portfolio.

“We also enabled an additional 8 million people to access the possibilities that the internet provides, bringing our total data subscriber base to 44 million, of which 18.7 million use more than five megabytes per month.

“We are now even better positioned to ensure that everyone can access the benefits of a modern connected life. We are excited to have been given the privilege to continue playing a role in facilitating this, and are grateful to our customers, our people, our partners and our regulator for making this possible.

“We understand how access to the opportunities enabled by the internet can open up new industries even in the remotest areas of our country.
“Thus, we will continue to focus on delivering social innovations like mobile electricity, financial services for all; and leveraging our technology as a vehicle to enable high-impact mobile solutions in education, health and agriculture in our communities – urban and rural.”
Share this on WhatsApp