Share this on WhatsApp


The People’s Democratic Party, PDP, in Edo State has raised alarm over threats by the All Progressives Congress, APC, government in the state to traders, compelling them vote APC candidates in the Saturday,, March 9 house of assembly election or get their shops demolished if they fall to do so.
The Edo PDP alerted: “As we approach the March 9, 2019 polls to elect members into the Edo State House of Assembly, Edo PDP is saddened, but not surprised, to report that the APC led state government has taken its intimidation, harassment, blackmail, connivance and contrivance to an absurd level.”
PDP State Publicity Secretary, . C. Osage Nehikhare, in a statement in Benin City was of the view that their target this time are the hardworking traders in the markets especially New Benin, Oba Market, Etinosa Market and ekiuwa market to mention a few in Benin metropolis. The State Publicity Secretary noted that  after financially inducing the APC “Iye-Eki”, market leaders, they deployed them to these markets to threaten, intimidate and harass traders to coerce them to vote for APC. He complained that the market women are being forced and blackmailed to join ln an “Apology March” to the government house scheduled for Tuesday, March 5, 2019 to beg Adams Oshiomhole and Governor Obaseki for forgiveness for the defeat of APC by the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, in the presidential and National Assembly elections. “All APC candidates,especially, President Buhari lost woefully on Saturday, February 23, 2019 presidential and national assembly polls. They are to join the Apology March and pledge loyalty to APC or they lose their stalls and in some cases markets,”PDP declared.

The State Party argued that “threatening a man’s means of financial survival for political compliance is reprehensible, irresponsible and condemnable. It exposes this government and its party, APC, as hollow, wicked and devilish! Just like their counterpart in Lagos, they are tyrannical, despotic and anti democratic.”

Edo PDP, therefore,  reassured the market women and traders that the APC threat is not actionable. “It is a ruse! They have no powers to take your stalls talkless of demolish the market as they are boasting they would. You must stand up to the bullies. APC cannot bully Edo people! Give them a bloody nose again on March 9, 2019. Only then will they show respect to you. It is clear Edo people have rejected their policy and style as they have failed in the nearly 12 uninterrupted years they have been in government, PDP declared.

The party maintained: “We sincerely appeal to you to extend same support you gave to our presidential and National Assembly candidates and vote massively for PDP House of Assembly candidates. Your support will guarantee quality representation and robust debates in the assembly. This is a golden opportunity to wake Edo state from its deep legislative slumber and make the state work again. We cannot reward and re-enforce failure !”
Share this on WhatsApp