Following the Australian white supremacist Brenton Tarrant shooting that killed 50 people in two Christchurch mosques,New Zealand has issued a ban  on military-grade semi-automatic and assault rifles.
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Thursday that the country’s gun laws would change.
“On 15 March our history changed forever. Now, our laws will too. We are announcing action today on behalf of all New Zealanders to strengthen our gun laws and make our country a safer place,” Ardern told a new conference.
“All semi-automatic weapons used during the terrorist attack on Friday 15 March will be banned.”
Ardern said she expects the new laws to be in place by April 11 and a buy-back scheme will be established for banned weapons.
The buyback would cost up to NZ$200 million ($138 million), she said.
All military style semi-automatics (MSSA) and assault rifles would be banned, along with parts used to convert weapons into MSSAs and all high-capacity magazines.
Under existing New Zealand gun laws, A-category weapons can be semi-automatic but limited to seven shots. Live-streamed video of a gunman in one of the mosques showed a semi-automatic weapon with a large magazine.
New Zealand, a country of less than 5 million people, has an estimated 1.2-1.5 million firearms, around 13,500 of them MSSA type weapons.
Most farmers in the Pacific country own guns, which they use for killing pests such as possums and rabbits, and for putting down injured stock.
Recreational hunting of deer, pigs and goats is popular for sport and food, while gun clubs and shooting ranges dot the country.
That has created a powerful lobby which has thwarted previously attempts to tighten gun laws after other mass shootings in New Zealand and overseas.
Federated Farmers, which represent thousands of farmers, said it supported the change.
“This will not be popular among some of our members but…we believe this is the only practicable solution,” Federated Farmers Rural Security spokesman Miles Anderson said in a statement.
The changes exclude two general classes of firearms which are commonly used for hunting, pest control, stock management on farms, and duck shooting.
“I have a military style weapon. But to be fair, I don’t really use it, I don’t really need it,” said Noel Womersley, who slaughters cattle for small farmers around Christchurch.
“So I’m quite happy to hand mine over, to be fair.”
Ardern said the next tranche of reforms will cover the firearm registry and licensing.
On Thursday, the bullet-riddled Al Noor mosque in Christchurch was being repaired, painted and cleaned ahead of Friday prayers, as grieving families buried more victims.
Ardern has announced that Friday’s call to prayers for Muslims will be broadcast nationally and there will be a two minute silence.
Armed police have been guarding mosques around New Zealand since the attacks. “We will have a heightened presence tomorrow in order to provide reassurance to people attending the Friday call for prayers,” police said in a statement on Thursday.
Both mosques attacked, the Al Noor and nearby Linwood mosque, plan to be reopened. Thousands of worshippers are expected at the Al Noor mosque, where the majority of victims died.
Most victims were migrants or refugees from countries such as Pakistan, India, Malaysia, Indonesia, Turkey, Somalia, Afghanistan and Bangladesh.
Australian Brenton Tarrant, 28, a suspected white supremacist who was living in Dunedin, on New Zealand’s South Island, has been charged with murder following the attack.
He was remanded without a plea and is due back in court on April 5, when police said he was likely to face more charges.