Fast rising footballer, Babatunde Abiodun, a product of Indomie Football Club at Sango Otta just signs on with Chinland FC. He talks about his football journey and more with National Daily Esther Egbe.


Tell us about yourself?

I am  Babatunde Abiodun, citizen of Nigerian. playing Myanmar National League 1, Chinland FC in Asian Country.Am from Oyo state .
My father has three wife, I and my senior brother from my mum and  the others wife gave seven for my father.

What influenced your decision to go into football and when did you start ?

I have passion for the game. I started from grass youth football in street team , then I move to join Marseill football club in a long AIT road alagbado .Them I move to join Indomie Football Club at Sango Otta Amateur League from 2012/2015 before I went to India and spent 2 years with Division 1 in Kolkata League .

What do you think about our local league?

Nigeria league is growing. Let’s work on our referees and educate our fans against violence at the stadium. Also we need to improve on our facilities.


Tell us about playing India and now China club ?

After several attempts to get a club,I got to join Chinland FC in China. I’m so grateful for Gods favour upon my career. I am in China to make a difference and drag about my motherland, Nigeria,a country with great ballers.


Can you compare the time you play and now ?

It’s a whole lot of difference. Facilities are different.

What inspire you as a person?

My mother is a big fan. She always encouraging me. She also let me know prayer is the master key to success.

Who is your Nigeria best coach?

I will give it to Coach  Fidelis Ilechukwu of MFM FC aka ‘Kamara’. He give me courage and confidence with the way I play my role.i can’t never forget him. He brought out the best in me.


What niche do you want to carve for yourself in the next couple of years?

I want to bring my self out and show my best to the world.

Who is your foreign best player and coach?

Adeseun Joseph. Klopp,  Liverpool Manager.


What’s the benefit of the game?

Football is a passion to me. I love the game, I can’t do without the game because it makes me high and famous all day of my life.

What have you achieved so far,since you were playing the game?

I thank God for my life today and for what I’m today. Whatever we do, let put God first. I’m happy today for who I’m and my achievements today .

How did you get into the game?

Putting my best , working hard everyday with focus and determination. Sometimes things bring me down,  but whenever am down , I motivate myself again to be strong and do it again .


What’s your trial experience in Nigeria league ?

I got invitation letter to do trials with the team . Yes I’m happy with them. MFM fc in 2015. Injury kicked me out.

How will you rate Nigerian football?

I already say it , we just need to improve on our facilities.

The way forward in the game?

Put God first. Never bring yourself down.

One word for Nigeria ?

No matter what ,I love my Nigeria.

			
			Post Views: 
			97