Senator Shehu Sani has chided the federal government of Nigeria over the deplorable security situation in the country and the failure of President Muhammadu Buhari to guarantee lives and property in the northern part of Nigeria. Shehu Sani, responding to the statement of Governor Abdulazeez Yari of Zamfara State that bandits are now more equipped than the Nigerian military, decried that the security situation in Nigeria has got to the point of shamelessness that even governors are now crying out in hopelessness.
Senator Shehu Sani in his twitter handle @shehusani declared that “for a governor from the ruling party and Chair of the Nigerian Governors Forum to openly reveal that bandits are better armed that our military and without a counter from the federal government, needs no further comment on the security situation of the country and the shamelessness of the situation.”
Abdulaziz Yari, Governor of Zamfara State, had after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja on Tuesday, lamented that bandits disturbing the peace of Zamfara State are better equipped than the military trying to counter them. The governor had advocated for sufficient show of force by the military to create the scenario of countering the bandits.
Governor Yari had declared: “Well, I have told my people that that will no longer take place during my time because I have done that three times but it did not work. This is in the sense that we know their capacity.
“For instance, during the first dialogue, they invited some of our team, Army, DSS, Police and my Chief Security Officer, as well as some traditional rulers’ representatives and we have seen what they have.
“They are in control of the kind of weapons that the Command In Zamfara State does not have.
“In one armoury alone, they have over 500 AK47; we saw it. Our people were even given the chance to take pictures.
“But when we said we will dialogue, offer amnesty, that they should surrender their arms, I can tell you till date, we did not get up to 90 AK47. So, it is a deceit. That is why I said no more dialogue during my tenure.
“During the dry season, they will look for dialogue because they know the security can get access to anywhere in the forest and they have no place to hide. But when the rainy season comes and the forest becomes thicker, they will return to their normal practice.
“That is why I said there has to be a show of force before anything else. I know that in any war, eventually, you have to come to the table and dialogue, but the situation we are right now, sincerely speaking, a dialogue is not needed at this point in time.”