Share this on WhatsApp
APC’s guber candidate Babajide Sanwo-Olu candidate  in Lagos State on Saturday made up for his failing two weeks ago  at his polling unit 019 by recording   a victory in the March 9 election.
He polled 124 votes, while his closest rival Jimi Agbaje of the Peoples Democratic Party got 26 votes at the unit  at his Lateef Jakande/Femi Okunnu Ward in Ikoyi.
The Action Democratic Congress (ADC) got two votes and the Young Progressive Party (YPP) got one vote.
The APC also won the House of Assembly polls for the Eti-Osa Constituency II.
Incumbent Gbolahan Yishawu, who has represented the constituency since 2011, defeated the PDP by 140 votes to 30.
Only 157 voters were accredited for the exercise out of 1100 registered voters, while four votes were voided.
In the presidential election two weeks ago, the PDP snatched Sanwo-Olu’s polling unit, winning 52 votes to APC’s 48.
However, PDP candidate, Jimi Agbaje also lost his polling unit by 84 votes to 80.
Sanwo-Olu expressed confidence about winning the 2019 governorship  elections.
“I am glad that I have voted and I’m confident that I will emerge victorious at the end of the whole exercise,  because we communicated and engaged everyone during our campaigns.
“I have done a lot of work than my opponents in terms of reaching out to the people of the state and spreading my manifestoes; so that gives me an edge.
“Also, exactly six months ago, Sept. 9, 2018, I collected my nomination form from the party and such coincidence means that I will be the next governor of Lagos State.
“Earlier, there were reported slight issues with the card readers. But I am happy that they have been resolved and generally, the elections have been peaceful and I’m confident of winning,” he said.
In Epe, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, the Deputy Governorship candidate of the  All Progressives Congress won his polling unit with a landslide.
His party scored 198 votes  to defeat the  PDP which scored 33 votes.
In the House of Assembly election, the APC also  recorded 195 votes, while  PDP  scored 32 votes.
Miss Florence Zik, the Presiding Officer (OP), announced the result at the polling unit on Saturday, in Epe.
Share this on WhatsApp