Former deputy national publicity secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Comrade Timi Frank, has asked the United States (US), United Kingdom (UK) and the European Union (EU), to place visa ban on the Chief of Army Staff, General Tukur Buratai, over alleged violent role played by the military during the just concluded general elections.
Frank made the call in a petition he entitled “The illegal use of the military to perpetrate violence and to disrupt electoral processes in Nigeria: a call for action” and sent to the foreign countries.
In the petition dated March 19 but made available to newsmen on Wednesday, Frank asked the international community to recall a letter he wrote them before the election alerting them of “impending danger in the plot by the All Progressives Congress (APC) led government to use the military and other security apparatus to rig the 2019 general elections and to perpetrate violence which is likely to lead to the killing of innocent electorates.”
Frank said that the alleged role played by the military during the elections had vindicated him and pleaded with the international community to ensure they fulfill their visa ban promises.
“You may recall that shortly before the 2019 General presidential, National Assembly and governorship elections in Nigeria, I wrote to your good offices to alert you on the impending danger in the plot by the APC led government to use the military and other security apparatus to rig the 2019 general elections and to perpetrate violence which is likely to lead to the killing of innocent electorates.
“For instance, the European Union Election Observation Mission (EU EOM) to Nigeria faulted the intimidation of voters and election observers by security agents especially in the governorship and House of Assembly Elections. The EU EOM further condemned the violence and intimidation against the citizens and election observers by the military and security agents, including the EU observers who were denied access to collation centers especially in Rivers.
“The executive director of Youth Initiative For Advocacy, Growth and Advancement (YIAGA) also alleged that military chased observers and some party agents out of the collation centers in some states.
“INEC on its parts just released a report on the Rivers State of Nigeria governorship elections where the said INEC categorically accused the Nigeria military of being complacent with regards to the unprofessional role they played in the conduct of the said general elections. It was stated that soldiers and armed gangs invaded collation centers to disrupt the collation process in order to thwart the Will of the people which they rightly did. The said INEC press release is attached herewith for your perusal.”