Share this on WhatsApp
Emeka Uwakolam, the governorship candidate of Accord Party (AP), in Abia State, has withdrawn from the race.


Uwakolam said he shelved his candidacy to drum support for the gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Dr. Alex Otti, in the forthcoming March 9 governorship election in the state.

The AP candidate, who made this known in a press conference held in Umuahia, the state capital, on Friday, explained that he was in perfect agreement with the economic policies, infrastructural plan, revolutionary mindset of Dr Otti, which made him to look at the existing political realities before taking such a huge step.


He said, “The time to build a new Abia which we all can call our own, is now; to change the narrative and entrench best practice and a system that rewards excellence. That time is now! we must put our hands to make sure we work together.”

The lawyer explained that he was not leaving the Accord party, neither was he collapsing his campaign structure, but he has chosen to partner with Otti to ensure that someone with genuine interest takes over the mantle of leadership in Abia state.

Uwakolam promised to work tirelessly to ensure that Otti was voted and sworn in as the next governor of the state.


The AP chieftain also used the opportunity to disclaim some supposed members of the party who claimed to be candidates under the umbrella of the party.

According to him, “Those ones claiming to be senatorial candidates of our party are not only illegal but their activities are criminal.

“We have noticed their nefarious activities and we will make sure they are brought before the law.”



Responding, Otti, the governorship candidate of APGA, thanked Uwakolam for the show of humility and support for his election, assuring that they would work together to liberate the state from the current socio-economic quagmire it was in at the moments.

He said, “Abia is enmeshed in a rot and the people who don’t see it are very few. That is why they can’t talk. Abia has been ruled by certificated illiterates. They can’t attract foreign investors, because of the hostile environment they have created.

“The only industries they (State government) have created are the bill board industry, propaganda industry, mortuary/undertaking industry”.




Share this on WhatsApp