Share this on WhatsApp
The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, NSCDC, in Ekiti State has arrested a 52-year-old, Dennis Agya Kiyeye over alleged conspiracy and murder attempt on a 15-year-old girl (names withheld) said to be his (Dennis Kiyeye) niece.
The Ekiti State commandant of the NSDC, Commandant Solomon T Iyamu said Dennis Kiyeye defiled and impregnated the girl at Ilupeju village in Gbonyin Local Government area of Ekiti State.
The suspect, according to the NSCDC boss, confessed that his niece has been living with him since 2013 after the demise of her mother in Benue state.
“Kiyeye said he had been having carnal knowledge of the girl since three years ago and the act has become normal of two of them
“The incest resulted into pregnancy in 2016 but was kept secret with the help of a quack midwife who assisted them to terminate the pregnancy.
“Dennis claimed that the pregnancy was jointly owned by him and one Kunle who happened to be the girl’s school mate in the village.
“Dennis explained that the girl later became pregnant for him again, and due to the shame he had caused himself, he conspired to terminate her life in a nearby bush around the village,” he said.
The poor girl was rescued by a good Samaritan who reported the dastardly act to the village Head of the community.
The village head, Chief Adebisi Olaoye explained that the suspect is a man of questionable character.
‘’After the sinful act became open to the people of the village, his movement became suspicious,” he said.
Chief Olaoye added that people in the village have been watching the suspect to determine the veracity of the information they had heard.
The Village head confirmed the claim that Dennis was arrested by the people while attempting to kill the girl in the village.
The village Chief promised to support the NSCDC on investigations to unravel the mystery.
The victim who revealed her inabilities to reject the sexual advances of her uncle who she claimed deflowered her, said the uncle is responsible for her feedings and upkeep, and that any refusal may land her into hunger and suffering
She cried to non-govermental organizations, people of Ekiti state and well-meaning Nigerians to come to her rescue as medical examination showed that she has fibroid tumour that is growing along with the baby, which may hinder the development of the foetus.
The state commandant, Solomon Iyamu who was amazed by the act said that the suspect will be charged to court to serve as deterrent to other wicked relatives who are in the act of defiling their family members or unsuspecting children under their watch.
The NSCDC Commandant enjoined parents in the state to take adequate care of their girl child against shameless and wicked relatives pretending to be family members.
Share this on WhatsApp