Senator-elect Orji Uzor Kalu is also itching to contest for the position of the Deputy Senate President in the ninth National Assembly.
The former governor of Abia also wants the All Progressives Congress (APC) to zone the position to the South-East in the interest of equity and justice.
The Abia North senator-elect made the disclosure while speaking with journalists on Wednesday at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos.
He said he was aware that the APC, which had the majority in the Senate, had zoned the senate president position to the North-East and the Deputy Senate President to the North-West.
Mr Kalu said: “I am a very loyal party man. The party has zoned the senate presidency position to the North-East and I want to respect the party’s will. But the second position is what we are not going to allow to leave the South-East.
“So, as far as I am concerned, in the South-East, I am going to run openly on the floor of the House for the position of Deputy Senate President.
 
“I am not going to listen to the party neither will I listen to anybody. Nobody that wants to be the Deputy Senate President is more loyal than I am to the party.
“I have suffered for the party and have been called by Nigerians to come out. I want the party to respect the will of every other person and I am committed to democracy and contesting on the floor of the House.”
According to him, Article 50 of the Constitution and Article One of the constitution make it clear that the members of the National Assembly in-House can elect their principal officers.
He said it was only fair that the position was retained in the South-East, stressing that both President Muhammadu Buhari and APC Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, were well aware of this.


“So, if justice must prevail, you have to bring the Senate President from the North-East and you bring the Deputy Senate President to the South-East.

 
“The chairman of the party is from South-South. The President is from North-West. The Vice-President is from South-West and also the Senate President will come from North-East.
“Whether it is Senators Ahmed Lawal or Ali Ndume, this will be decided on the floor of the House.
“So, for me, the tripod in Nigeria is Igbo, Yoruba, and Hausa and we are going to get the deputy senate president and I will fight on the floor of the House like no other person has fought.
“That is not challenging the party but this is about looking for justice. Buhari said recently after the elections that he will be addressing issues of injustice and this is part of the issue,” Kalu said.
He further maintained that he was qualified for the position having being a former member of the Federal House of Representatives from 1991 to 1993 and also a two-time governor.
Mr Kalu said: “I know the nook and crannies of how legislators operate. I have dealt with them and I am not a newcomer. So, it is going to be impossible to edge me out or edge a whole zone out by claiming we are newcomers.
“What I am fighting for is justice, fair play and for Nigeria to continue to be one. I have suffered in fighting for the unity of the country. They cannot use National Assembly or petty House officers to divide the country.
“I have sweated. All my investments are in the North, in the West and the South and we must protect these things and live in peace.”
He, however, warned that he would be forced to contest for the position of the Senate President if the APC failed to do the needful.
“I have the capacity for lobbying. I am well-known in East, West, and North. If the party continues this way, I will run for the Senate President if justice is not done to say South-East bring the Deputy Senate President.
“I can assure you that there are over 56 Senators in my kitty now for either the Senate President or the Deputy Senate President that have already signed to what I believe in.
“It is only just to unveil it on the floor of the House,” Mr Kalu added

			
			Post Views: 
			66
			
 

        


        
                        
            
                                            

            SHARE
            
	            Facebook
	            Twitter
	            
	            
	            
            tweet !function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs");            Previous articleCourt to rule on no case submission by ex-NNPC boss May 16Next articleWhat 80-yr-old grandma DJ says as she rocks party at night club            Editor