The Take It Back movement has advocated for a stricter building codes to safe guard the lives of Nigerians.
The call is coming on the heels of a 3-storey building housing a Nursery & Primary school at the first floor collapsed in the Itafaji area of Lagos Island, killing several pupils and injuring many on Wednesday.
In a statement signed by the group’s Director, PR, Media and Communications, Rachel Onamusi- Kpiasi on Thursday, there are ministries tasked with ensuring that buildings gain the proper paperwork adhere to building codes and use the right materials before they are erected.
The group said the ministries have, however, been compromised by corruption as far too often, these laws are shirked and government officials look the other way as sub-standard buildings go up – and ultimately come down – with disastrous results.
“Today, Nigerians are thrown once again in mourning as a building housing a primary school collapsed. The death toll varies from ten to a hundred victims but one thing is certain: many children who left home this morning will not return home, much to the heartache of their parents and family.
“The tragedy is made all the more painful as it becomes clear that this was wholly avoidable. The building had been identified as “distressed” and listed for demolition; certainly not safe for the purposes for which it was being used. The number of casualties continued to rise as rescue efforts were hampered by lack of equipment and resources for eventualities such as these.
The group led by Omoyele Sowore, therefore urged the Nigerian government to settle focus on the task of protecting and securing Nigerian lives, stressing that that until Nigeria has a government that cares about its citizens and takes the loss of Nigerian lives seriously by rigorously enforcing building codes, the country will sadly continue to bury its citizens in this manner.
“We call for a reverse of the rot that is now endemic in our systems and demand that the government works to build this nation and not tear it down further. We join all Nigerians in praying that more children will be rescued and returned to their loved ones.”