Share this on WhatsApp
Sultan Saad Abubakar III has claimed the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari for another four-year term should be seen as what Almighty God had ordained and should not be challenged by anyone.
The Sultan spoke Tuesday in Abuja when he led the National Council of Traditional Rulers of Nigeria to Abuja to congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari. The Sultan is the national chairman of the council.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had on Feb. 27 declared the president winner of the 2019 presidential election held on Feb. 23.
Buhari was declared re-elected having polled 15,191,847 votes, winning in 19 states, to defeat 72 other candidates, including Atiku Abubakar, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who scored 11, 255,978 votes.
However, Atiku, who won in 17 states and the FCT to occupy the second position, insisted that he would challenge the result of the election in court.
But the Sultan described the result of the election as the will of the Almighty God.
“Your election as president for the second tenure should be seen as what God has destined which no man could have changed that destiny.
“This result is the will of the Almighty God and therefore we call on all to give you maximum support for the achievement of peace, development and progress of our dear nation.’’
The traditional ruler urged the president to reciprocate the gesture of the electorate by making sure that his administration continued to ensure justice and fairness in all its dealings with Nigerians irrespective of their geo-political backgrounds.
“We urge you Mr President to reciprocate by continuing to lead with justice and fairness as you openly said in your acceptance speech after the receipt of the certificate of return,’’ he said.
He stated that the council had resolved to continue to offer its unflinching support to the federal government’s cardinal objectives of transforming the economy, securing the country and the fight against corruption.
In his remarks, the co-chairman of the council and the Ooni of Ife, Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, reaffirmed the Council’s determination to work closely with the government for the general good of the country.
He challenged the president to listen to criticism of his administration in `a very constructive manner’.
He added: “We know that you are very passionate about the people of this country especially the common people.
“We want to urge you to continue to play that fatherly role. Let the whole nation see you as the true father; let the whole nation see you as the true president that will actually consolidate what has brought all of us together.’’
Responding, President Buhari sought for more understanding and support from the royal fathers.

Share this on WhatsApp