Calls for cancellation of Kano supplementary poll


     
The Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) says it has credible intelligence that the All Progressives Congress (APC) has allegedly plotted to use compromised security personnel for a mass arrest of its top leaders in Bauchi State.
In statement released by PDP spokesman, Kola Ologbodiyan, the party alleged that the move is meant to put the opposition party leaders out of circulation and enable the APC have a field day to rig the supplementary election.
“The PDP also has been informed of plots by the APC to unleash its thugs and compromised security agents to storm polling units between 1pm to 3pm to snatch election materials and change results and take them to INEC office in Bauchi for collation and announcement.
“The PDP leaders earmarked for the illegal mass arrest by the APC include but not limited to Alhaji Bello Kirfi, Senator Abdul Ningi, Senator Suleiman Nazif, Senator Isa Hamma Misau, Alhaji Hamza Akuyam, PDP Bauchi State Chairman, Hon Salisu Zakari Ningi, Hon Ahmed Yerima, Hon Samaila Burgah, Hon Aminu Tukur as well as PDP leaders and agents in the 29 polling units where elections are holding in the state,” Ologbondiyan said.
The PDP also said Nigerians should hold the APC responsible should any harm befall any of “our leaders or members in Bauchi State during and after the elections.”
The party however stated that such underhand scheme by the APC will not deter it from standing firm in resisting all aggression and consolidating on our already established victory in the state.
Meanwhile, the Kano State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to cancel the ongoing supplementary governorship election across the 28 local government areas of Kano State.
The party based its call on alleged electoral offences being perpetrated by thugs in the state with security agencies apparently doing nothing to stop them.
The call was made by the acting chairman of the party, Rabiu Sulaiman-Bichi, while addressing a news conference in Kano on Saturday.
He said there was need for the commission to cancel the election as the process had completely been taken over by armed political thugs.
He said, “Today this charade called re-run election was slated to hold in Kano and other states but unfortunately, what we have in Kano is nothing but a sham.
“Reports reaching us since yesterday indicated that thugs have allegedly been mobilised to take over all the 208 polling units.”
He further said that thugs allegedly brought from Zamfara, Katsina, Kaduna, Plateau and other neighbouring states and were “armed to the teeth” posing as voters in the polling units in the localities.