One of the robbery suspects arrested by the Police in connection with the Offa robbery incident, Ayoade Akinnibosun, says he and the other suspects were tortured to implicate Senate President Bukola Saraki.
Recall that daredevil robbers had invaded the ancient town on April 5, 2018, robbing several banks and killing scores of people including pregnant women and police officers.
In a trial within trial on Friday, March 15, at a Kwara state High Court, to review how the suspects were tortured and threatened by the police to make confessional statements, Akinnibosun said he and other suspects, Ibikunle Ogunleye and Adeola Abraham, were forced to lie in their statement by DCP Abba Kyari to implicate Senate President Bukola Saraki.
He said: “Abba Kyari told me to mention the name of Senate President Bukola Saraki that he gave me the guns for the operations. But I declined to do contending that my life is at stake.
“He promised that they would reward me handsomely and set me free if I can indict Senator Saraki. “When I disagreed they called some policemen to take me back to their cell. During this time my hands were tied to my legs in the back. Their children are in America and Europe you are allowing yourselves to be used as political thugs.”
Akinnibosun, who claimed to be innocent, said he is leader of Kwara South Liberation, and knows nothing about the robbery but said the principal suspect, Micheal Adikwu was asked to point him out of a police lineup as an accomplice and when he (Adikwu) refused, he was shot and killed by an officer.
Ayoade Akinnibosun, Ibikunle Ogunleye and Adeola Ibrahim gave graphic details of their horrifying experience allegedly in the police custody in Abuja.
The trio added that it was in the same ‘theatre room that Inspector Vincent otherwise known as ‘Mr. Torture,’ allegedly shot dead Michael Adikwu for failing to indict them in the robbery incident.
According to Ibikunle Ogunleye “they brought the late Adikwu to implicate us and he said he had not met any of us in his life that is why Mr. Torture shot him to death.
The suspect made this statement after his counsel, Mathias Emeribe, asked the court to reject an earlier statement submitted by the police.
“Presiding judge, Justice Halimat Salman adjourned the case to March 25th for continuation of trial within trial.