Following the successful conclusion of the general election in Enugu State and the overwhelming victory recorded by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has appealed to members of his political party to promote peace and unity and show love to one another irrespective of party affiliations.
Gov. Ugwuanyi stated that now the election is over, politicians in the state should invoke their Christian faith, go back and unite with their perceived enemies, show love to them, so that the prevailing peace for which Enugu State is known will be adequately sustained.
The governor, who spoke when the jubilant people of Igbo-Eze North Local Government Area paid him a congratulatory visit at the Government House, Enugu on his reelection, said: “As the father of Enugu State, I want peace, I want unity, we have handed everything over to God, the election is over and it has ended in praise”.
Promising to continue to serve with the fear of God, Gov. Ugwuanyi added: “As Enugu State is known for peace, I would want this peace to endure. I want Enugu State to remain a reference point for peace so that we can make rapid progress and get what is due to us”.
Gov. Ugwuanyi who thanked the people of Igbo-Eze North LGA for their overwhelming support during the elections, asked God to bless them, assuring them of his administration’s commitment to continue to advance the cause of development in the area to improve their living standard.
Earlier, the council chairman, Comrade Uwakwe Ezeja told the governor that they came in their numbers to thank God and congratulate him on his resounding victory at the polls, and reiterated their unalloyed support and loyalty to his administration.
In his speech, the Patron, Enugu State Council of Traditional Rulers, HRH Igwe Simeon Okosisi Itodo of Essodo Kingdom, Aji, Igbo-Eze North L.GA, commended Gov. Ugwuanyi for the development projects his administration has attracted to their area, pointing out that the massive votes the people had given the governor was as a result of the love they have for him.
“Your smooth victory shows that God is behind you. It also shows that our people agreed to follow you till the end”, he said.
Other speakers, namely, the Enugu North Zonal Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Nze Michael Onyeze; the House of Representatives-Elect, Igbo-Eze North/ Udenu Federal Constituency, Engr. Simon Atigwe; Deputy Chief Whip, Enugu State House of Assembly and Member-Elect, Igbo-Eze North I Constituency, Hon. Ethel Ugwuanyi; and the Member-Elect, Igbo-Eze North II Constituency, Hon. Innocent Ugwu, all applauded Gov. Ugwuanyi’s uncommon leadership style and his giant strides in their area and beyond, saying: “We are with you for life, we will not disappoint you”.