The Social Democratic Party, SDP, in Abia State, has expelled the governorship aspirant of the party in the 2018 primaries, Ambassador Endurance Philips, over alleged anti-party activities.
The party slammed the SDP chieftain and accused him of working with the ruling Peoples Democratic Party in Abia with aim to cause factional crisis in the state leadership of the party.
The Abia State chairman of Social Democratic Party (SDP), Hon. Chidi Nwosu, made this known, in a press conference in Umuahia, the state capital, on Thursday, recalled how Philips led seventeen local government chairmen of the party (SDP) in the state, in adopting Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, as sole candidate of Social Democratic Party before the just concluded 2019 general elections, said the actions of the party members posed a big threat to the peace and progress of the party.
Recall that ND had on Monday, reported that the Abia State chapter of the Social Democratic Party has suspended the seventeen local government areas chairmen of the party in the state over anti-party activities.
The SDP leadership explained that the suspension followed a directive by the national leadership of the party.
According to Nwosu,”Our great party recently just before the governorship and State Assembly elections is witnessing thrive of dissidents propelled by one of our leaders, Ambassador Endurance Phillips, who saw the election as an opportunity to shortchange our great party for his private and personal interest of acquiring his property the State Government reallocated to DSS Abia State for public interest.
“He felt he could not achieve his goal if he does not brainwash some LGA chairmen against our most qualified governorship candidate, Hon. Mrs. Dame Blessing Nwagba, PhD, and the State chairman, Hon. Chidi Nwosu. We believe he had negotiated with the PDP government in Umuahia for a spoon of paragon by factionalizing the party and weaken the chances of our governorship candidate winning the Guber election.
“He had severally hosted some of the former chairmen who of course had been suspended by the party on noticing their objectives. Their suspension remains pending the outcome of the disciplinary committee investigating them. For Ambassador Philips attempt to factionalize our coherent party, we view his actions as undue interference, insubordination and tending to use our party as batter for his land Government had acquired.
“We, therefore, consider him a threat to the peace and progress of our dear party. Considering Ambassador Philips actions the party is compelled to expel him henceforth. This decision shall be communicated to NWC for ratification.”