Share this on WhatsApp
 
South African based Artificial Intelligence Software & Solutions veteran and founder of Cortex Logic, awarded premium accolade at Africa’s Tech Week event, underlying a life dedicated to AI and Data Science Innovation.
Dr Ludik is an African based smart technology entrepreneur and Artificial Intelligence investor / AI ecosystem builder, holds a PhD in Computer Science and has amassed 25+ years’ experience in the study and exploitation of AI & Data Science in real world applications.
Ludik was formally a founder of Bennit AI, Mosaic, SynerG and CSense Systems, the latter being Africa’s first AI company sold to General Electric in 2011.
Over his career Jacques has published a wide range of papers on AI, Advanced Analytics, Machine Learning and Data Science and is a big supporter of AI for social good. He is currently Founder & CEO of Cortex Logic and Founder & President of the Machine Intelligence Institute of Africa (MIIA).
Dr Jacques Ludik said, “It’s such an honor to receive any award and this one is special because it comes at a time when AI is moving beyond the hype and into the realm of real world application both in the Enterprise and society in general.”
Ludik went on to say, “My current focus is two-fold; at Cortex Logic we are now building a series of products and platforms embracing all aspects of Artificial Intelligence to help businesses solve complex business problems using the power of machine learning, deep learning, Internet of Things (IoT) and Big Data & Analytics. At the Machine Intelligence Institute of Africa we are building a community that aims to leverage AI for social good, education and transformative change in wider African society. It’s been a passion of mine for many years and there has never been a better time for young engineers, entrepreneurs, business & governments to begin their journey into the 4th Industrial Revolution.”
Ludik concluded, “Every sector of society and commerce will be impacted by AI and I cannot wait to see what the future holds. However, we have some key challenges to solve around the ethics and impact AI will have on society so it’s imperative that we all begin to focus on this debate and how this smart technology era will be leveraged for positive change, growth and benefit for all. I look forward to the next 25 years of change and will continue to focus on the positive impact this could have not only in Africa but the entire world.”
Share this on WhatsApp