This was a weekend for consistent goal scorers from Victor Osimhen in Belgium to Semi Ajayi  and other in the English Championship to continue to prove their form is not accidental.
5. Semi Ajayi
The former Arsenal Academy star has continued to score goals as a defensive midfielder for struggling Rotherham United in the English Championship after he scored his sixth goal in the last five matches. He now has seven goals in the Championship. He needs to keep scoring the goals to give his club a fighting chance of avoiding relegation.
4. Anthony Nwakaeme
The 29-year-old striker scored his eighth goal in the Turkish league as Trabzonspor won at BB Erzurumspor. The road win keeps Nwakaeme’s club on course for a spot in next season’s UEFA Europa League. His first season in Turkey is already a big success even with eight rounds of matches still to be played.
3.Stephen Odey
The former MFM FC star scored his eighth goal in the Swiss league and 13th in all competitions as FC Zurich beat Xamax 2-1. After a difficult first season in Switzerland, Odey has fully settled down in Europe and now a lot more is expected of him.
2.Asisat Oshoala
The Super Falcons star could not have chosen a bigger stage than the league clash at league leaders Atletico Madrid to shine and score her fifth goal in as many matches for FC Barcelona women. A world record of over 60,000 for a women’s football game watched Oshoala score again and the 2-0 win in Madrid has reduced the gap to just three points between table toppers Atletico and closest rivals Barcelona. Oshoala has continued to show how important she will be for Nigeria at the Women’s World Cup in France in the summer.
1.Victor Osimhen
The Wolfsburg loanee has firmly got his promising career back on track in Belgium after his 13th goal for Sporting Charleroi at the weekend. He has already attracted interest from Italian giants AC Milan among other top European clubs on the back of his fine run in Belgium. He has another chance in the coming week to stake a more serious claim to a place in the Super Eagles to the 2019 AFCON in Egypt in June.

			
			Post Views: 
			143