The Director-General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), Chief Osita Okechukwu, has appealed to federal lawmakers to support President Muhammadu Buhari wish for the National Assembly in this last leg of his administration.
Okechukwu, who is also Administrative Secretary of Buhari Support Organisation and Zikist-Buharist-Movement, said this on Sunday while speaking with newsmen at Nkerifi community in Nkanu East Local Government Area (LGA) of Enugu State.
He was speaking at the sideline a wedding ceremony of one Mr Tochi Eze saying that in his honest opinion other lawmakers should allow Ahmed Lawan to be the next Senate President and Femi Gbajabiamila as Speaker of House Representatives.
“He needs seamless legislation to advance the 5,000 kilometers of federal roads, 5,000 kilometers of Standard Gauge Rail lines and additional 5,000 megawatts of electricity.
“The sage says once beaten twice shy, he was stung in his first term,’’ he said.
According to him, without prejudice to the zoning convention, Lawan and Gbajabiamila have paid their dues in the progressive camp.
“They have been consistent, steadfast and have persevered in the struggle which made our victory possible.
“They are our arrowhead in the National Assembly,’’ Okechukwu, who is a Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and ardent support of President Muhammadu Buhari for over 20 years, said.
On complain of other senators that method adopted by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Chairman of APC, lacked finesse and is less than democratic, Okechukwu appealed to APC bigwigs to support Buhari’s wish for the National Assembly to stand.
“May I use this golden opportunity to appeal to my dear friend distinguished Sen. Ali Ndume; my big brother, Sen. Orji Kalu, and indeed distinguished Senators and members of political parties to support Buhari in his last leg.
Okechukwu, however, noted that he is a supporter of robust legislature, which the experience and diligence of Lawan and Gbajabiamila would bring to the table.
The VON DG, however, assured the people of the South-East of Buhari’s resolve to run an inclusive government, which he has reiterated many times in his post electoral victory meetings with various groups lately.
“At any rate, outside critical infrastructure like Eastern Corridor Railways, 2nd Niger Bridge, Enugu Coal, Eastern gas pipeline, agrarian revolution and similar projects nationwide which cordial bi-partisan National Assembly will engender, motivate and guarantee.
“There are other strategic offices outside the chambers of the National Assembly to compensate such geopolitical zones,’’ he added.

			
			Post Views: 
			50