Share this on WhatsApp
The youth wing of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari on his victory during last Saturday presidential elections.
This was contained in a statement issued by Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, President General, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide.
Isiguzoro hailed Ndigbo for supporting Buhari despite what he called deception by some Igbo leaders.
His statement read:
“Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide congratulates President Buhari for his well-deserved victory on Saturday 23rd February, Presidential Elections, a sign of acceptance from Nigerians.
We do hope that Next Level of Policies will favour Ndigbo as there was increased voting for President Buhari, irrespective of deception by some Igbo leaders who tried to lure Igbos into political wilderness.
OYC observed the desperation of Northern Elders that connived with Igbo leaders to extend the 2023 Igbo Presidency project till 2027 by dangling Vice Presidential slot, which has less political value to Ndigbo than 2023 Presidency.
We commend Barr Uche Okwukwu, the Secretary General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo for saving Ndigbo by boldly supporting President Buhari even when his life and ours were threatened by enemies of Ndigbo who masquerade as Igbo leaders.
We ask Ndigbo that we are now back to the mainstream, and we expect increased dividends of democracy. This election is between two Fulanis, and Northerners.
We ask Ndigbo to remain quiet and be peaceful and do their normal businesses. We commend INEC for the peaceful conduct of the election but there’s need to improve on the Card Reader.
Igbos will re-elect Governors Ikpeazu, Umahi and Ugwuanyi on Saturday 9th March, as there’s no need to change a winning team.
These Governors remain the best materials for Ndigbo and have a good partnership with the federal government. We urge Igbo Youths to vote massively to them.
We call Ndi Imo state to mend fences for the greater value for Igbos by allowing Sen Ben Uwajumogu of Okigwe Zone to win and have the chances of emerging as the Senate President of the 9th Assembly.
We are boldly saying this without mincing words, that in other to get APC balanced, the party should allow Ndigbo to be the Senate President. We should not allow the mistake of 2015 of stopping Senator Ngige, which robbed us the Senate President.”
The Federal High Court sitting in Jos, on Thursday threw out a N1.25 billion suit filed by Gov. Rochas Okorocha, against the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) and the EFCC.
Okorocha filed the suit against the IGP and EFCC in November 2018 for allegedly invading and ransacking his house in Jos.
Delivering a judgment, Justice Musa Kurya, dismissed Okoracha’s application for lacking in merit.
“Even though there was no record of how the search warrant was obtained but a search warrant dated May 3, 2017 from a Magistrate has been attached as exhibit before this court.
“Whether due process was followed or not at obtaining the search warrant, there is no proof otherwise to its genuineness and the breach of sections 34 – 37 of the UN human rights and African Charter.
“Consequently, judgement is hereby entered in favour of the respondents. The applicant’s claims are hereby refused.
“I hereby declare that the application of the applicant lacked merit and is hereby dismissed and cost is not awarded to either parties in this suit, ’’ the Judge declared.
NAN reports that Okorocha alleged that the IGP and the anti-graft agency breached his fundamental human rights following the May 3, 2017 invasion
Also joined in the suit are the Commissioner of Police Plateau, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justic.
The Governor prayed the court to declare the action of the police and EFCC as “illegal, null and void’’ and award his client the sum of N1.25 billion as general damages because there was no valid court warrant for such an exercise.
But the IGP and the EFCC, through their counsel, Edwin Inegbenoise and Muktar Ali-Ahmed, pleaded with the court to dismiss the governors application for lack of merit since a court warrant was obtained for the search on his residence in accordance with the law.
Share this on WhatsApp