Neymar has overtaken Messi, but Ronaldo seems untouchable. But who are the players with the most followers on Instagram?
Ask football fans who are the top three players in the world and you will have a lot of different answers.
Where debate is no longer allowed, it is in the fact that Cristiano Ronaldo is the star who has the most followers on social networks.
313 million people follow him on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. In March of last year, Ronaldo exceeded 121 million followers.
That’s 31 million more than second-place Neymar, who is ahead of Leo Messi.
Despite his retirement status, David Beckham (by far) leads the leading trio while Zinedine Zidane (16 million) is in the top 25. Robert Lewandowski (12 million) follows from a distance.
The most-watched British footballer is none other than Gareth Bale (33 million).
Among young people, Kylian Mbappé (7 million), Gabriel Jesus (6 million), Ousmane Dembele, Harry Kane and Marcus Rashford (4 million each) and Dele Alli (3 million) are still very far from the Top 25.
PSG Verratti: Italy recreating enthusiasm
Marco Verratti believes the new Italy are “giving the fans back enthusiasm for the Nazionale” after a perfect start to Euro 2020 qualifying.
The Azzurri thrashed Liechtenstein 6-0 in tonight’s Euro 2020 qualifier, following up Saturday’s 2-0 win over Finland.
“These were two tough games, especially as we couldn’t afford to drop points in the first two on home turf,” the Paris Saint-Germain midfielder told Rai Sport.
“They were two very good performances too and we are happy with the results. We said to ourselves after missing the World Cup that the first thing we had to do was recreate the bond with the fans, give them back enthusiasm for the Nazionale and make it the team for everyone to support.”
Verratti’s only previous strike was in a 1-1 friendly with the Netherlands in February 2013.
“It’s important for a midfielder to score, but in Paris I have a deeper role and we have so many strikers there lining up to score. I am happy with the goal, though.
“We are a young squad, but we are on the right track.”

			
			PV: 
			0