The Nigerian military have reported relative success in containing the activities of bandits in the North West. This was as troops of Operation Sharan Daji indicated that they have killed 55 suspected bandits and rescued 760 persons abducted from villages in Zamfara State.
The Acting Force Information Officer, Major Clement Abiade, in a statement, in Gusau, on Tuesday, indicated that the troops recovered weapons, ammunition and rustled cows as they blocked all entry points to the bushes to deny the bandits free movement and reinforcing confidence in the locals. He disclosed that 24 bandits who include kidnappers and castle rustlers were arrested and handed over to the Police for proper investigation.
“A total of 24 suspected bandits informants, rustlers, kidnappers and logistics suppliers were arrested and handed over to the Police for further investigation.
“The Air Component of the operation carried out several air strikes around Kagara, Gando, Fankama, Fete and Dumburum forest during which, successes were recorded.
“Items recovered include four AK 47 rifles, one Rocket Propelled Gun Tube, 12 Dane guns, 27 AK 47 Magazines, 168 rounds of 7.62mm (Special) ammunition, one Pump Action Gun, 47 Motorcycles, a Golf wagon car and 61 rustled cattle,” Abiade declared.
He maintained: “The troops ‘sustained operation led to the return of over 1000 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) from Maru to Bini village on February 17.
“The Emir of Maru, Alhaji Abubakar Chika, and Chairman of Maru Local Government Area (LGA), Alhaji Salisu Dangulbi, witnessed their departure at the LGA headquarters.
“Unfortunately, this feat was not achieved without supreme sacrifice being paid by one officer, two soldiers and a vigilante who paid the supreme prize during the encounter with bandits in Kagara forest.”
The Force Information Officer stated that the Force Commander, Major General Olabanji Stevenson, sympathized with the families of those who lost their lives or got wounded assuring that their pains would not be in vain.

			
			Post Views: 
			76