Senator Omo-Agege who represents Delta Central, says the judgement delivered by a Court of Appeal sitting in Benin on Friday is being misinterpreted in some quarters.

In a statement by his Senior Special Assistant, Communication and Strategy, Godwin Anaughe, Senator Omo-Agege said the court’s ruling merely states that only the APC can appeal the judgement of the lower and not individual candidates.

He had applied to the court to for leave to be joined as parties to the suit in which the Federal High Court, sitting in Asaba, sacked the Jones Erue-led APC State Executive Committee, which conducted primaries.

The statement reads: “It is instructive to note that the ruling delivered by the Court of Appeal on Friday only struck out the application on the ground that Senator Omo-Agege and Rev. Waive cannot appeal the judgment as individuals since they are both members of APC who can appeal the judgment on their behalf. The APC has already filed an appeal against the said judgment.

“Furthermore, it is important to note that today’s ruling delivered by the Court of Appeal sitting in Benin has not and did not determine the appeal filed before it by the APC.

“We reiterate that the Consent Judgment delivered by Justice A.I. Chikere of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja is still valid and subsisting and all the recent happenings in court have neither invalidated nor set aside the Consent Judgment. Therefore, the Prophet Jones Ode Erue led Exco remains the authentic and legitimate APC Executive Committee of Delta State, so also are all the candidates of APC in the just concluded 2019 general elections.

“This remains the position of the law as affirmed by the Supreme Court in plethora of cases, including but not limited to the case of OKONTA VS PHILIP.

“It is therefore foolhardy for anyone to suggest that today’s ruling delivered by the Court of Appeal, Benin City upheld the earlier judgment delivered by the Federal High Court, Asaba and as such touches on the legal rights of the APC candidates in Delta State.

“In conclusion therefore, as previously posited, Distinguished Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and other candidates of the APC for 2019.general election are not bound by the said judgment delivered by Justice Toyin Adegoke of Federal High Court, Asaba. The status of all the candidates of the APC in Delta State for the 2019 general election remain valid and legitimate.”









			
			Post Views: 
			107