Thibaut Courtois believes that the supporters of Real Madrid demand more from their players than fans of city rivals Atletico Madrid do.
The Belgian keeper has endured a tough first season at the Estadio Santiago Bernabeu and has come in for some criticism for his below-par displays.
Formerly of cross-city rivals Atletico Madrid, Courtois believes there are distinct differences between the two sets of supporters.
“There is more pressure at (Real) Madrid, the fans are more demanding, and I like that,” he stated.”You cannot compare one stadium with another, the Bernabeu with the (Vicente) Calderon.
“If you see Valdebebas, you see how great Madrid are, it is the best I have ever seen. Atleti do not have that,” Courtois told El Transistor.That is not to say that he has burned bridges with those on the other side of Madrid.”I love sport and I read a lot of sports journalism as well as things about Atleti,” he said.”I also meet with Filipe (Luis) and Diego Costa and we talk about things.”I carry great memories from Atletico and I am always delighted to see them,” he stated.
Courtois admits that he would keep tabs on Madrid as a youngster due to his adoration of a former Los Blancos great.”I began to follow Madrid because I loved Iker Casillas, while I also loved the style of (Edwin) Van der Sar.”I bought Iker’s jersey and I had a big flag of the Bernabeu in my room.”I did not support Real Madrid but I liked them,” he stated speaking on the competition for the no.1 spot with Keylor Navas, Courtois revealed what his first coach at Real Madrid, Julen Lopetegui, told the two keepers.
“Lopetegui spoke with us and said that Keylor would play the first two matches and I would play the next two.”After that, he didn’t tell us anything,” he revealed.”I have a good relationship with Keylor, he is a good teammate, but a friendship is not made in five months,” he said.It has been a tough first season for the Belgian at Los Blancos but it is not a decision that he looks back on.”I do not regret coming, Madrid is the club I always wanted to be at. “Defending this goal is a luxury. I think: “How cool is it be there every two weeks”.
“At Real, I noticed from the first minute that I was at the best club in the world,” he said. Rumours are rife about who Madrid may sign this summer and, just as it was last season, the name of Eden Hazard is circulating.”(Hazard) is one of my best friends in football.”I do not know if he’s going to sign for Real Madrid, nor do I know if the club wants him.”For me he’s one of the best of the world and as a friend I would like him to be here,” Courtois said.

			
			Post Views: 
			37
			
 

        


        
                        
            
                                            

            SHARE
            
	            Facebook
	            Twitter
	            
	            
	            
            tweet !function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs");            Previous articleGriezmann transfer: Incredible amount star would lose in Barcelona moveNext articleAnalysts at loggerhead over impact of proposed NHF law            Editor 2