Accuses Amaechi of subverting the will of the people

The deputy governorship candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC) in Rivers State ion the controversial governorship election, Akpo Bomba Yeeh, has resigned from both the party and the race. Yeeh in a letter of resignation notice to the AAC governorship candidate in Rivers State, Engr. Biokpomabo Awara, and the state leadership of the party, affirmed that his resignation is with effect from Monday, March 25, informing the party of his defection to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He declared that upon the resignation, he ceases to be the deputy governorship candidate of the AAC for the 2019 governorship election in Rivers State. Yeeh cited the hijack of AAC by the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, accusing Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Transport, of subverting the will of the people in Rivers State.
Details of the resignation letter read in part:
“I write to most respectfully notify of my resignation from the membership of the African Action Alliance (AAC) with effect from today 25th March 2019 and subsequent defection to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
“Please note also that by this notice, I cease to be the Deputy Governorship Candidate of our Party, the AAC, for the 2019 Governorship Election in Rivers State.
“My decisions were informed by the complete hijack of the structure and administration of our Party by a faction of the APC in Rivers State led by the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, for his personal political ambition.
“Furthermore, the Rotimi Amaechi led faction of the APC is not letting in its determination to subvert the will of Rivers people and cause crisis in the State using the platform of our promising Party.
“In the circumstance, I cannot in all conscience continue to lend support to the selfish political venture of the Minister of Transportation, which does not mean well for the progress and development of the people of Rivers State.
“As a budding and promising politician, I also appeal to you to accept the reality of your crushing defeat and liberate yourself from being used by Rotimi Amaechi to cause unnecessary political crisis in our dear State.
“Thank you very much and please accept the assurances of my highest regards as always.
“Signed
“Akpo Bomba Yeeh
Former AAC Deputy Governorship Candidate
Rivers State.”