Chairman of DAAR Communications, owners of the RayPower FM and African Independent Television (AIT), Raymond Dokpesi, has accused the Muhammadu Buhari led federal government of witch-hunting members of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP).
The businessman recalled that on March 25 when he returned to Nigeria after a medical trip in Dubai, immigration officers stopped him at Nnamdi Azikwe Airport and seized his passport before he was eventually allowed to leave.
He was said to have also been detained by the Department of State Services (DSS) on the same day. Dokpesi said it was clear that the government has denied him the kind of respect he deserves for creating employment opportunities.
“I can state categorically that this is the handiwork of the Buhari-led Federal Government. There is nothing I can do. I am in court already. I am a citizen of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. It is on my sweat that I go for treatment,” he was quoted to have said.
Dokpesi, who is standing trial for alleged diversion of N2.1 billion he received from the office of the national security adviser (NSA) in the buildup to the 2015 elections, said he returned his passport to the federal high court, Abuja on Monday and that immigration authorities invited him two days later.
“On Monday, I received new information and in line with the normal process, I returned my passport to the federal high court since I travelled under a judicial approval or permission,” he said.
“So, I returned my passport that I have gone and came back and gave notice that I might have to go for a medical checkup.
“When I got the NIS letter yesterday, I replied that same yesterday, notifying them that I have returned the passport to the federal high court and that it has been duly acknowledged and added all the necessary information.”
Dokpesi said the officers who interrogated him, however, said the service had expected him to go to the court and obtained the passport with their letter of invitation.
“I got the passport from the federal high court and I have returned the passport to the court,” he said.
“If the immigration service requires my passport, then write directly to the federal high court and request for the passport.
“I stood my ground and said, well I am a Nigerian citizen, I have travelled out for my medical treatment, I voluntarily came back and have handed over my passport to the appropriate authority.
“They were telling me that passport was a property of the federal government and has a right to withdraw it at any time.”
He has since dismissed the allegations of abuse of security funds under the last government.

			
			Post Views: 
			77
			
 

        


        
                        
            
                                            

            SHARE
            
	            Facebook
	            Twitter
	            
	            
	            
             !function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs");            Previous articleUSA grouped with Canada in inaugural CONCACAF Nations LeagueNext articleCBN now has its eyes on Fintechs’ activities            Adminhttp://www.nationaldailyng.com