Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Saturday, February 23 election, Atiku Abubakar, yesterday held a close a closed-door meeting with former President Olusegun Obasanjo in Abeokuta.

A statement issued by Media Aide to the former President, Kehinde Akinyemi, disclosed that Atiku went into a meeting with Obasanjo and came out at about 1.00pm before having lunch with his host.

The details of the meeting were not disclosed as Abubakar as at the time left at about 2pm.

After Atiku’s visit, Oyo State Governor-elect, Seyi Makinde also visited Obasanjo.

Makinde, who was elected on PDP’s platform, was accompanied by his Deputy, Akeem Ademola, Oyo State PDP Chairman, Kunmi Mustapha, Senator Hosea Agboola, Bose Adelabu and Lagos State PDP Chairman, Dominic Agboola, among others.

Obasanjo tasked Makinde to jettison the type of democracy, which would only target selfish interests of the few.

However, Chairman, Anambra State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Campaign Council, Oseloka Obaze has cautioned the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to be mindful of election results it churns out.

Obaze, who headed the Atiku Abubakar/Peter Obi Presidential Campaign Organisation in the state, reminded the electoral body that posterity would judge the commission accordingly.

He also reminded the electoral umpire that the world was watching Nigeria and would judge the commission in due course.

The PDP candidate for the 2017 Anambra State gubernatorial election said, “We are watching with utmost concern and disgust, developments in Rivers State. The development there represents the rise of illiberal democracy.

“The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) government must not allow the governorship election in Rivers State to become a tripwire to a national crisis.


“INEC must be allowed to expeditiously conclude the Rivers State governorship election as it has done in APC-controlled states.

“The will of Rivers people must be respected and the unconstitutional engagement of the military there should be brought to an end forthwith.”

Meanwhile, a market executive in Anambra State, Jude Nwankwo, has charged House of Representatives member-elect, Okwudili Ezenwankwo, to always protect the interest of traders while enacting laws in the Green Chamber.

Nwankwo, who made the call in Onitsha yesterday, expressed joy that Ezenwankwo’s victory has brought glory and pride to traders in the South East, who were only known for their commercial ingenuity and to all traders in the country.

He noted that the success of Ezenwankwo, a crayfish seller and former Chairman, Ose-Okwodu Market, who became Chairman of the market, rose to become President-General of Anambra State Markets and Amalgamated Traders’ Association (AMATAS) and South East Markets Amalgamated Traders’ Association (SEAMATA), was a positive development.

“He rose through popular elections, which is a combination of sheer determination to succeed in one’s venture in life and fortune.

“Having emerged victorious under the platform of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), his victory has become a rare feat and having emerged from traders’ circle, his primary constituency, his emergence has attracted commendations from fellow traders in Anambra,” he added.

Also speaking, Sunday Obinze attributed Ezenwankwo’s success at the poll to his managerial and political sagacity, adding, “The victory has further exposed traders as enlightened people who could also contribute meaningfully to Nigeria’s socio-economic and political development.”




















ReplyReply allForward