Share this on WhatsApp





Suspected political thugs are said to have hijacked electoral materials in four local government areas of Cross River state, while a party agent was also shot dead in Imo state on Saturday.

According to the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner in Cross River state, Dr. Frankland Briyai, the affected LBs are Abi, Bakassi, Obubra and Etung.

Dr. Briyai, confirmed the development shortly after monitoring the voting process at some polling units in Calabar Municipality and Calabar South.

Briyai said that report of hijack at Yakurr Local Government Area of the state had yet to be confirmed, noting that the Commission would record zero scores in all areas where materials were hijacked.

“We have had cases of hijack of materials today. I got a call on hijack of materials in Abi, Bakassi, Obubra and Etung local government areas. In Yakurr Local Government Area, I got a call concerning hijack of materials but I am yet to confirm that.

The REC however expressed satisfaction with high turnout of voters in some areas and applauded voters for their peaceful conduct during accreditation and voting.

“The security agents were doing their work accordingly in all the areas we visited and I must commend them for that,’’ he added.
In Imo state, a party agent was shot dead in Nkwerre Local Government by suspected political thugs.

According to reports, the killing of the party agent made voters who had yet to cast their votes to flee the polling unit.

The murdered party agent, yet to be identified, was said to have engaged some other party agents in a fierce argument in one of the polling units.

He was however ambushed and shot several times after leaving the polling unit by suspected political thugs until he died.

The killing was confirmed by the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu, who said the police command is already investigating the murder.

Ikeokwu said: “I can confirm that a party agent was shot dead at Nkwerre. We have swiftly responded and taken over the investigation process.

“Outside some pockets of violence, the security architecture of the state is wonderful. The security agencies are on top of the situation. We have made a couple of arrest including the arrest of fake policemen at Umuobom in the Ideato South LGA.”




Share this on WhatsApp