Share this on WhatsApp

The Anambra Police Command has confirmed the killing of two persons in Obosi area of Anambra during Saturday’s State House of Assembly election in Anambra State.
The Police further disclosed that a total of 47 persons were arrested for various electoral offences ranging from disruption of elections, malicious damage, thuggery, assault and unlawful possession of firearms, NAN reports
Of the 47 suspects, 18 have been transferred to the CIID Awka, the state capital for discreet investigation after which they would be charged to Court for prosecution.
The killings were said to have taken place when armed thugs attempted to hijack electoral results at Umuota Obosi area. Thugs were said to have come in a commercial bus at about 5/00p.m. and were trying to compel the INEC team to handover the electoral materials when the two victims were shot to death.
SP Haruna Mohammed in a statement indicated that the killing resulted from a clash between two rival cult factions.
“It was clash between the Black Axe and Vickings Confraternity that led to the death of two yet to be identified persons at Obosi,” Mohammed stated.
He affirmed that Police had commenced investigations to unmask the killers whom he said fled after killing their victims.
The PPRO further stated that the command recorded another incident of shooting and disruption of voting at Agulu Township polling unit.
He said that three suspects were arrested and a locally made Pistol with four live ammunition recovered.
“Another shooting incident took place at Nwanebo Primary School 1 and 2 inside Immaculate Catholic Heart Church premises Uga in Ekwulobia involving two private security guards of the church following a scuffle,” he added.
It was indicated that other incidents recorded during Saturday’s election included rescue of a Presiding Officer, one Meniri Njideka of Nawfia, abducted at Afor market square unit Mbaukwu in Awka South LGA.
He said the corps member was treated at the Police Clinic Awka and discharged.
“Other offences recorded included thuggery at Nri in Anaocha LGA, Umouji ward in Ogidi and Nteje where the Command responded promptly and carried out some arrests.
“Exhibits recovered included two double barrel guns, one locally made pistol, four live ammunition, and three expanded ammunition.
“Other exhibits are One Toyota Hilux, one L300 Bus, 291 ballot papers, one motorcycle, some dry leaves suspected to be cannabis sativa and cash worth N173,420, “ it was highlighted.
Share this on WhatsApp