Share this on WhatsApp





Speaking for the first time since President Muhammaadu Buhari was declared winner of the 2019 presidential elections, former President Olusegun Obasanjo says his criticism against President Muhammadu Buhari was not personal, but in the interest of the country.

Obasanjo who clocked 82 on Tuesday, spoke on his criticism of Buhari’s administration during his birthday anniversary celebration held at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, in Abeokuta.

The former president while responding to the remarks by the Alake and Paramount Ruler of Egbaland, Oba Michael Gbadebo, who advised Obasanjo to stop attacking Buhari, said he (Obasanjo) is Buhari’s boss.

“There is nothing personal between President Buhari and me. In a democracy, you can criticize a policy, a government or a leader because democracy is not a family affair.

“So, if I say anybody in government in Nigeria or any government for that matter is not doing well, let that government prove that it is well. It’s not anything personal.

“So, Kabiyesi, your boss, Buhari; there is nothing personal between me and him. Just as he is your boss, I am his boss, with all due respect.

“Now, the point is that I have been in that position longer than any Nigerian will ever be there. That’s true.

“If any Nigerian comes in and have two terms, he will not have almost four years of military rule. So, I have been there longer than any Nigerian would ever be there.

“So, when I say something I know what I am talking about. Kabiyesi, anytime you say, “leave my boss alone,” I say “he is your boss”. “But I am also his (Buhari) boss. So, you might also ask your boss (Buhari) to leave his boss alone or do what is right than his boss wants him to do”.

Earlier in his goodwill message, Alake who served as a military officer during the military administration of Muhammadu Buhari between 1983 and 1985, disclosed that he had always told Obasanjo to leave his boss alone.

“Those guys who are talking about three terms, should check their mathematics because Obasanjo had gone beyond.

“At 82, baba is still fighting on, please, fight less and be a consultant to everybody. You are a warrior all your life.”

You need to rest, fight less, and rather take a position of a consultant at your new age. “At 82 years of age, I think you should keep your sword more rather than use it always,” he said.




Share this on WhatsApp