Determined not to be caught off guard when new rules initiated by International Football Association Board (IFAB) come into play, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), has concluded plans to educate all its national football teams on the move by FIFA.
At its (IFAB) 133rd Annual General Meeting held on March 2nd, 2019 in Aberdeen, Scotland, five major changes to the rules of football were adopted and are expected to come into force from June 1st this year.
Some are minor others are a lot more dramatic. First, there will be no rebounds from penalties, meaning play will stop for a restart if a penalty is saved or hits the post. There will no longer be opportunity of a follow up to score from such rebounds.
Henceforth, handballs either voluntarily or involuntarily will no longer be allowed except if the action leads to goal.
Also, a substituted player can leave the field anywhere to guard against time wasting by advantaged team.
IFAB also ruled that players can now touch the ball in the area after a goalkeeper kicks it out unlike before that players could not touch goal kicks before they exited the box.
Finally, coaches will receive cards instead of reprimands. Now, they can be able to be given yellow and red cards just like players.
“We are ready to adapt to the changes that will come into force in the next few months. Nigerian football has suffered from negligence in the past but in this digital age, we are more abreast to adaptation that goes with whatever change in our dynamic sport.
“In the days to come, the Technical Department and its Committee will soon meet on how best to educate all the teams and not only the Super Eagles, the same message will go down to clubs participating in the continental competition and also in the domestic football,” Head of Communication NFF, Mr. Ademola Olajire revealed .
Super Falcons will be the first to face the new rules at the FIFA Women World Cup finals in France from 7th June to 7th July while Super Eagles comes next at the Africa Cup of Nations final in Egypt scheduled for 21st June to 19th of July.
…

			
			Post Views: 
			247