LONDON, ENGLAND - FEBRUARY 02: Eden Hazard of Chelsea celebrates after scoring his team's third goal during the Premier League match between Chelsea FC and Huddersfield Town at Stamford Bridge on February 2, 2019 in London, United Kingdom.  (Photo by Richard Heathcote/Getty Images)
        
 


The captain of Belgium, author of a double against Russia on Thursday night (3-1), will celebrate Sunday his hundredth selection with the Red Devils.
“How do you like this first success in qualifying for Euro 2020 against Russia (3-1)?
First, it was a good match. The most important thing was to start the qualifying campaign well. That’s what we did. The coach and the players are happy. The qualification is not all drawn. Of course we start this campaign in the best way. We had said it between us. It was the most complicated match with all the respect I have for the other teams (Scotland, Cyprus, San Marino, Kazakhstan).
We do not say that we will qualify. but we are confident. Well, it will not be easy in Cyprus (Sunday). But if we play with the same mentality as today, in attack as in defense, we will go to win there. It will be a completely different meeting. Russia made a beautiful World Cup. We knew that if we put all the ingredients, we could beat it.
And despite the many absences (Kompany, R. Lukaku, Witsel, Meunier, De Bruyne, Mr. Dembele) …
Yes, there are frames. But it was repeated that the other players are well integrated. We have the quality to stay efficient and make two teams. Those who played tonight (Thursday) showed it to us. I am thinking in particular of Leander Dendoncker who is not anyone. When everyone is available, it will be more difficult for some to play. But we are sure that they will give the best of themselves and that is what is good within this group.
Euro 2020 Qualifiers: All Belgium-Russia goals in video
Sunday, you will celebrate your hundredth selection. What does this cap represent?
It’s a beautiful figure. Without victory, this hundredth would be wasted. But at 28, it’s a super nice reward. This proves that I give myself thoroughly for a few years and that I find pleasure to evolve in selection. I do not give myself any limit. I do not want to make bad matches. If the new generation grows, we will stop. But we are still far from it. I am at the moment in full force of age. “

			
			PV: 
			0