The trial of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, continued on Monday at the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) in Abuja after the CJN has recovered from the ailment that prevented him from appearing at the Tribunal last week for the trial.
At the resumed sitting of the court, the federal government called its first witness.
Led in evidence by the Prosecution Counsel, Aliyu Umar, the witness, who is a Senior Investigation Officer with the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB), James Akpala, whose duty includes intelligent gathering, asset reconciliation, in his testimony, said on 1st January 2019, he received a directive from his superior, one Samuel Madujemu, to investigate Justice Walter Onnoghen based on petition received from Denis Aganya alleging breach of code of conduct, non and false declaration of assets.
He narrated that thereafter, the Asset declaration form of Justice Onnoghen from 2000 to 2019 was requested for.  The petitioner was invited to the Bureau and his statement was recorded.
The investigation team was said to have written to Standard Chartered Bank Limited, requesting for the defendant (Justice Onnoghen) bank statement, which the bank responded.
On 11th January, the team visited the office of Justice Walter Onnoghen, and presented the petition to him which he replied to in writing, it was added.
The Tribunal admitted in evidence the asset declaration form and Bank statement tendered by the prosecution.
Going through the documents presented by the prosecution counsel, Counsel to the Defendant, Adegboyega Awomolo, said that the asset declaration form of 2014- 2015 has been tempered with.
He also noted that the said witness is not the maker of the document, therefore, cannot be tendered.
The prosecution counsel in his objection said that the witness is an investigator and in the strength of that he can tender the documents.
Chairman of the Tribunal, Danladi Umar, held that in the interest of justice, the bank statement is admitted in evidence.