Raheem Sterling has spoken out about the vile abuse he received at Chelsea for the first time.
The Manchester City star scored a hat-trick in Saturday’s 3-1 win over Watford to ensure the Blues stayed top of the Premier League .
And in an interview with the New York Times , Sterling has again pointed a finger at sections of the media who have portrayed him as flash and “blingy”.
Sterling was seen being abused by four Chelsea fans during City’s 2-0 defeat in December, and it appeared the language one of them used was racist, although he has since denied that.
All four fans were suspended from attending matches by Chelsea and the Metropolitan Police opened an investigation.
The following day, Sterling posted a message on Instagram calling for the media to re-appraise the way they treat young black players differently to young white ones.
But he did not directly speak about the Stamford Bridge incident which sparked his plea.
In the interview, Sterling said that normally he closes his ears to the crowd, but this time he heard what was being said as he went to retrieve the ball for a throw-in.
“The way they were looking at me, I had to see where all this anger was coming from,” he said.
“I was listening in to hear what they were saying.”
And his initial reaction, he said, was one of disbelief: “Nah, that can’t be what I heard.”
His response was the Instagram statement which has been seen as a turning point in terms of tackling the subtle racism which blights some parts of the media.
“It is not just me,” said Sterling. “Whenever you see a report on a black player or a black entertainer it has to end up with money, or bling, or cars, or something flashy. 
“With a successful white person, it is nice, short, sweet, what a lovable person. Name me one white player who is thought of as ‘blingy’.”
Comparing the news treatment to that of Cristiano Ronaldo, Sterling added: “If he is showing you his car, showing he is on top of the world, if that is what he puts out, then call him flashy. But I’m not showing you that, so why are you calling me that?
“It is a stereotype of black people – chains and jewellery, bling and money. These are words that are associated with black people.
“If I was showing ten cars on my driveway, if I was on Instagram biting my gold chain, or with two Rolexes on, you can call me flashy. But you can’t label me as that if I am not portraying that.”
Sterling also revealed the point City skipper Vincent Kompany had made in the aftermath.

			
			PV: 
			0