The Peoples Democratic Party PDP, Akwa Ibom State chapter, has described the claims by the All Progressives Congress APC that their mandates were stolen in the just-concluded Presidential/National Assembly elections in the state as mere fallacy.
The PDP stated this in reaction to the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s comments during a thank you visit in Uyo on Monday that, APC votes were stolen and it was impossible for Senator Godswill Akpabio to lose election, considering his level of popularity in the state.
In a statement, which was on Tuesday signed by the Publicity Secretary of PDP in Akwa Ibom State, Ini Ememobong, the party said since the failure of Senator Akpabio and APC as a whole to win elections in the state, they have found solace in engaging in blame game.
The statement partly reads, “Since the conclusion of Presidential and National Assembly elections and the subsequent announcement of the results, Senator Godswill Akpabio and the APC have been falling over themselves to concoct fairy tales to explain how and why they failed and like a bad Workman, the tool is to blame.
“For them every other person and institution deserve the blame, except them. Their blame pendulum swings from the PDP, to the Resident Electoral Commissioner, to the electorate etc.
“The highest display of self deceit was the circus created for the Vice President to perform yesterday at Uyo. Unknown to the VP that his hosts, especially Senator Akpabio, are aspirants to the hall of fame of political comedy, he appeared on the stage and was cued to perform. He vomited exactly what he had been fed with.”
“He exclaimed that their mandate had been stolen and that it will be reclaimed. While his immediate audience applauded him, the external audience was deeply disappointed at such illogical outburst from a person who ordinarily should be learned.
“For the records, Akwa Ibom people know who the mandate thieves are, they are those who refused to go on consultation and grassroots campaign but held rallies in towns and instead of telling the people what their plans were, proclaimed themselves god and touted their invincibility.
“They took the electorates for granted, preferring to deal with the big names only. On the day of election, those who brought policemen and army personnel to aid in electoral malpractice are the real thieves. After the election, during collation the real thieves are the people who went to Oruk Anam INEC office, Ikot Ekpene INEC office and Essien Udim INEC office.
“Those who invited the GOC and other Army to help in their attempt to thwart the announcement of Senatorial results for Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District results are the thieves. Those who sought to bribe INEC staff with foreign currency are the real thieves.”
The PDP also alleged that APC sought help from Edo State using Adams Oshiomhole as the middle man to bring in some political thugs that would cause violence and political unrest in Akwa Ibom state.
“Even as we are preparing for the forth coming elections, the APC have sought for help from Edo state, using Adams Oshiomhole as the liaison, to recruit armed political thugs ferried in 53 buses enroute , led by Tony Kabaka and Osakpamwan, alias ‘no molest’.
“They have also mobilized touts to start peaceful protests that will snowball in violent unrest in Uyo, the state capital. They have also purchased and sneaked in weapons of different dimensions. That is their preoccupation instead of reaching out to the electorate. For them election preparation is synonymous with war readiness and nothing more pretentious.”
He, therefore, called on the people to discountenance the call by VP Osinbajo, Senator Akpabio and the APC family on reclaiming of stolen votes in Akwa Ibom.

			
			PV: 
			0