Despite the heavy presence of security operatives at the just concluded supplementary polls in Bauchi and four other states of the federation, violence has continued to trail conduct of the polls.
In Bauchi, at least four Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials were kidnapped by armed men.
The officials whose name are yet be ascertained as at the time of this report, were kidnapped at Jamare Local Government Registration Area 02 with Polling Unit Code 010.
According to a staff of the commission who escaped, the armed security operatives came in seven Toyota Hilux vans.
Narrating the incident to news men the staff said, “Four of our staff in Jamare LGA Registration Area 02 with Polling Unit Code 010 have been abducted with voting materials. The place was invaded by heavily armed security operatives who came in seven Toyota Hilux Vans, and took the four INEC officials to Jamare LGA to perfect their plots.”
Similarly, in Benue state, hoodlums reportedly had a field day disrupting the electoral process in the state.
Reports say thugs attacked escorts, drivers and some vehicles conveying electoral materials to Azendeshi ward for the supplementary elections in the state.
That much information was made known by the Benue State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Dr. Nentawe Goshew on Saturday after he raised an alarm over the attack by the political thugs.
According to Dr. Goshew, the attack took place along Zaki Biam in Ukum Local Government Area of the State.
The incident comes hours after the rerun election at Jato-Aka, Tse Akough PU 012, Yaav ward, Kwande Local Government Area of the state was disrupted by suspected political thugs.
According to reports, the electoral process was thrown into confusion by the thugs led by a young man identified as Mr. Iorver Yough, believed to be working for the All Progressives Congress, APC.
Reports say voters fled the polling unit after Yough allegedly slapped a PDP agent, Micheal Iornongo, allegedly using club and machetes on him while other gang members broke the ballot box and snatched the voters register.