Share this on WhatsApp




The Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly has expressed his displeasure, over the voter apathy and alleged waste of national resources, which to him was less commensurate to electoral process in terms of result in the elections.
Obasa expressed his detaste for the process which to him is yielding less result compared with the resources used up,after successfully casting his vote at his polling unit 19,ward E on Oluwole Olaniyan Street in Agege around 1:16pm today.
According to Obasa the process was wasteful and need be changed in its entirety, as it is clearly alien to our clime and unproductive.
“I strongly believe it is going to affect the number of votes that are going to be recorded,I don’t know why it needs to amount to this kind of situation,most especially those who have helped in the last election complaining about their allowances.
“I don’t think it’s good enough,though for me I have always believed we need to adopt our own system,a kind of system that will work for our own country and that our people would understand perfectly.
“Adopting what we see elsewhere is not going to be that helpful to us.
“I think we should just go back to what we used to do in the past,what I call MKO method,that pattern is very cheap,straight forward and clean.
“If you considered the amount of money we have expended on this process I think it is a process that is wasteful and without result at the end of the day.
“Today it is card reader, tomorrow it is allowance,another day it is the transportation, logistics and all we can’t continue like this.
“So we should look inwards and adopt a system that will be perfect for our nation.
“The process is expensive and the result,does not commensurate with the cost so what I’m saying is that we should look inwards and do something that is totally acceptable to all of us and besides,that would reduce the cost and size.
“You know our’s is the type that is trying to grow the economy, we need to fix a lot of things;we have road challenges,education and more,so we can pump the money in this sectors instead of wasting it in a system that will only take place in a day or two.
Commenting on the voter a that has been witnessed repeatedly in the process, Obasa opined that,
“I don’t know the reason
It is a very difficult one,on the political party side,I think all the parties most especially APC, we have done all we should do and we believe that we are going to massive turn out today but unfortunately the report since morning has been that of apathy.
“I know why,it seems our people are not interested,I don’t know why or what is responsible, I think maybe we need to start educating our people on why they need to come out and vote.
” You know some  just go there and vote,many do not understand the consequence of that vote ,because that singular decision you are going to make in a day is going to influence your live, for the next four years.
“I don’t think the people understand it,they just rush to vote but loosing sight of the consequence, that I feel they need to understand. That when you take a decision today,it is going to count for the next four years.
On the call on male legislator to help the political progression of women in politics,Obasa maintained that,”the political system is free now,you can join any party you are not asked to bring your CV,or pay any amount before you join,it is a kind of free entry and exit thing,you can go and come at will.
On his plans for the people if re-elected to the state legislature,he said,”my people want what is happening now to continue;that is infrastructural development, employment and what have you”.
Hon.Oluyinka Ogundimu representing Agege constituency II,while chatting with newsmen after casting his vote at unit 046 ward 10, note that INEC officials were not around as at when due,same with the ad-hoc staff,who staged a protest earlier in the day, over non payment of their allowances for the previous   elections.
Hon. Rasheed Makinde representing Ifako Ijaiye II ,at state Assembly,  who voted at polling unit 022(B) ward 8 in front of Home Science school with three units, also corroborated the speaker, on the voter apathy issue stating that any electorates that fails to participate lacks the temerity to question the system, on account of non- functionality.
“Our campaigns from street to street yielded results,but the apathy in our people is still there.
“In that our people lack patriotism, it is so obvious and unconcerned attitude of our people, but all they are known for is to criticise raising voice,whereas this is the civic responsibility they ought to come out and discharge,if you are not part of the process that made the government, I think you don’t have any responsibility to be criticising that government.
“I am imploring our people to come out and vote,for it is their civic responsibility they need to discharge,but our psyche in this part of the world is so poor.
“Lots of the people would come out and be asking you for inducement, which  our party is not a part of which the shoddy arrangement.
“The process was however calm and normal , but I observed that the INEC official came very very late to their points
“They came around 11am and people have been here immediately after 8am,some them left 9,10 am to canvass for electorates to come out.
“When I am cast my vote they said the card reader can’t read,but ask them to proceed, so I had to feel the incidence form.
“I think the lateness of INEC official largely demoralized the electorates to come out and vote,our people are out now ringing bells to call the people out to vote.
Hon.Bisi Yusuff representing Alimosho constituency I at the state Assembly described the process as encouraging,he however hinged the better turn out recorded in his area as a reflection of serious sensitisation of the electorates in Alimosho by the various parties especially APC.
The lawmaker who voted at  unit 014 said,
“It is encouraging, INEC came earlier here,people were voting and going,unlike last two weeks when the whole thing was rowdy,there was no arrangement,INEC did not tidy up anything, but now there is a better political education.
“People are aware of what to do and how to do it,well that is the positive impact of the various parties thsg went out to sensitise the electorates and that informs what you are seeing.
“Though the card reader could not take my biometric for a number of times but it later did and I voted,I urge all to exercise patience. They need to endure.





Share this on WhatsApp