More than 40 registered political parties in Kano State have rallied round Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje and his re-election being challenged by the PDP and other parties in the state.
The political parties are happy that Ganduje of All Progressives Congress (APC) won the just concluded governorship election which opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has kicked against.
The political parties came together on the platform of Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP).
The CUPP chairman in the state, Alhaji Nuhu Isah, who paid a congratulatory visit to the governor, expressed dismay over a purported news conference held in Kano where it was reported that the coalition condemned the entire process due to alleged electoral irregularities.
Isah who is also the chairman, lnter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), said the 42 political parties were satisfied with the election outcome and would not challenge it at the tribunal.
“We are shocked to read the contents of the news conference discrediting the whole conduct of the process, security agencies, INEC and worst still the declaration to challenge the outcome of the exercise.
“We in CUPP comprising the representatives of the 42 political parties in the coalition, and joined by the Inter-party Advisory Council (IPAC), categorically disown and disassociate the coalition from the sham press conference as well as condemn it in its entirety.
“We also express our dismay at the action of the conveners of the news conference for using the coalition to express personal and untoward views for whatever reasons and influence under the guise of CUPP,” he said.
He noted that the coalition monitored the supplementary election in Kano and in all sincerity believed it to be free, fair and peaceful.
Isah also acknowledged that there were pockets of violence in some polling units which magnitude were insignificant to warrant any call for cancellation of the election or legal redress at the tribunal.
International observers and media groups also confirmed the supplementary poll was marred with violence and voter intimidation across the LGAs.
Earlier, Gov.Ganduje wondered why only the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) faulted the re-run election while it was not the only party that participated.
He promised to run an all-inclusive government, which would be anchored on unity to develop Kano state.
“We are going to carry everybody along irrespective of political inclination to move Kano state forward, ” he said

			
			Post Views: 
			58
			
 

        


        
                        
            
                                            

            SHARE
            
	            Facebook
	            Twitter
	            
	            
	            
            tweet !function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs");            Previous articleJAMB candidate raped to deathNext articleNigerian whistle men missed FIFA list             Editor