Share this on WhatsApp
Global Finance magazine has named its 20th annual World’s Best Investment Banks in an exclusive survey to be published in the April 2019 issue.
Winning organizations will be honoured at an awards ceremony on the morning of October 19, 2019 at the National Press Club in Washington, DC during the IMF/World Bank Annual Meetings.
J.P. Morgan was honored as the Best Investment Bank in the world for 2019 while Coronation Merchant Bank was recognized as the Best Investment Bank in Nigeria along with Barclays, VTB Capital and DBS Bank as the Best Investments Banks in Western Europe, Central & East Europe and Asia – Pacific regions respectively.
Investment banking plays a key role in moving the global economy forward. Our awards highlight the investment banks that stand out in delivering quality insight and innovative deals that meet their clients rapidly changing needs,” said Joseph D. Giarraputo, publisher and editorial director of Global Finance.
Commenting on the award, Abu Jimoh, Group Managing Director/CEO of Coronation MB said, “we are delighted to be recognized as the Best Investment Bank in Nigeria.”
“Our successes and achievements over the years is a reflection of the hard work and commitment of our staff, management and Board in ensuring we maintain our core values of integrity, innovation and excellence in service delivery”.
He further stated that, “This award affirms that we are on course to achieving our long-term goal of becoming Africa’s premier investment bank”.
Coronation Merchant Bank is a Nigeria based financial institution, founded in 2015 and offering a range of services to individual and institutional clients, including trade finance, treasury, investment banking and brokerage products.
Coronation Merchant Bank is part of the Coronation group of companies, one of Africa’ leading investment management groups offering asset management, merchant banking, risk transfer and digital distribution capabilities.
The Bank’s achievements over the years has led to numerous accolades in recognition of excellent service delivery, provision of tailor made solutions and good corporate governance.
In 2018, Coronation MB received several national and international awards for product and service innovation and sound corporate governance practices, such as: Best Investment Bank in Nigeria by World Finance, Fastest Growing Investment Bank by Global Banking & Finance Review, Best Investment Bank by Global Business Outlook, Best Investment Bank and Best Fund Managers by International Finance Magazine and Best Investment Bank in Nigeria by BusinessDay.
Share this on WhatsApp