First Lady, Aisha Buhari has advocated more appointments of women into the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, saying she wishes her husband’s cabinet will have 41.6% women.
Speaking at the unveiling event for the Tony Elumelu Foundation (TEF) entrepreneurs for 2019, the wife of the president said she appreciates the drive of the foundation to ensure more female participation.
“The strategy vision behind the engagement of the office of the wife of the president is to contribute to the acceleration of efforts to end preventable maternal, newborn and child death through advocacy and strengthening of accountability mechanism in order to maintain the peace and development of Nigeria,” Aisha Buhari said.
“The steady advancement of women in contributing to the country’s social-economic development and their progressive prominence in the national scheme of affairs have in a large extent impacted on the federal government and the government has responded positively in many ways.
“In a bid to continue to advocate for the well-being of women, children and adolescent in Nigeria.”
Speaking about the advancement of women in the national scheme of things has helped the nation, wishing her husband will get more women into the cabinet.
“The Future Assured Programme of the Aisha Buhari Foundation, share the same vision with the Tony Elumelu Foundation to emphasise true intervention in health, education and economic development,” she added.
“It is worthy to note that there has been a progressive increase in female participation in the Tony Elumelu Entrepreneurship Programme over the years, with a 41.6 percent female representation in 2019. I wish the cabinet will have the same percentage.
“Women have continued to prove their strength and competence in our society in all spheres, even in male-dominated — not in politics.”
Aisha said she “will like to take this opportunity to encourage Nigerian women, especially from the north to apply for the Tony Elumelu Entrepreneurship Programme”.
She said leadership matters, and the leadership Elumelu has provided has affected his businesses and the nation, adding that “the soul of the leader always determines the political health of the state”.