Asked by Olympique Lyonnais website, dedicated to the news of the OL, Karim Djaziri, the former agent of Karim Benzema confirmed that he had indeed contacted Jean-Michel Aulas and reflected on a solution for facilitate a return to Lyon, last summer.
After 15 years of fruitful collaboration, Karim Djaziri almost got off on a big blow. While Real Madrid is in expectation in the summer of 2018, pending the appointment of a new coach, after the surprise departure of Zinedine Zidane, agent Karim Benzema is behind the scenes to find a solution to his player. The arrival of a new coach whose identity was still unknown to them encourages caution, and the representative of Benzema, remained close to the French striker, looking for a plan B.
“Leave Real to return to Lyon”
“When I knew that Zidane was going to stop with Real Madrid, I told myself that a new coach was coming: Will not he make a clean sweep of the past in this team stamped ‘Zizou’? explains Djaziri, questioned by the Olympique and Lyonnais website.I knew that Cristiano Ronaldo was leaving.Before Lopetegui was announced, there was a lapse of time.I did not call many clubs, only two.If Karim had to to leave Real, I know it would be to return to Lyon, in his mind it’s like that. ”
“It’s a lot of money for Lyon”
Interviewed by France 3, a little over a week ago, Jean-Michel Aulas talked about contacts with Karim Benzema and his agent last year, about the possibility of a return. “Yes, we discussed it with his agent, with him, that’s part of the ideas we can have.”
Karim Djaziri confirms: “I called Jean-Michel Aulas to tell him: ‘we never know, would it be economically possible?’ We discussed the different possibilities and we talked about the idea, and we knew it would be difficult unless we had an idea that we had developed together with new partners who would support the financial contribution to bring it in. When Karim got the call from Lopetegui, I called Jean-Michel Aulas to tell him that it could not be done, we did not find the trick for Lyon, it’s a lot of money. On salary, it becomes insane. “

			
			Post Views: 
			51