A seeming rational South African has blasted his fellow South Africans who have resorted to killing of other Africans in their country, condemning them over their misplaced anger.
Trevor Noah took to the social media to narrate that there are about 2.3 million Immigrants living in South Africa. He classified that the immigrant population includes other Africans, Chinese, Bangladeshi, Indians, middle easterners and Europeans who are not born in South Africa. Of the number, only 1.6 million were said to be Africans.
Trevor Noah further narration reads: “The 1.6 million Africans mostly run small shops, vending, service industries etc.
“They may lay claim to less than 0.00001% of wealth in SA. Whites in South Africa make up about 8.7% of the population and control over 85% wealth.
“Though there are increases in black CEOs and managers, these are mere servants and just optical presentations. “There are about 6000 Europeans families who own over 85% of agricultural lands in south Africa.
“So, when I hear south Africans claiming that other Africans are competing with them on dwindling/scarce resources, I say that your anger and outrage is misplaced. African immigrants don’t own lands, don’t run companies, don’t own mining companies, don’t operate trophy hunting companies, do not ship out capital to European banks,”
Noah then declared: ““Yours is a complete misplaced anger, prejudice and xenophobia built up out of inferiority complex created by decades of apartheid and oppression.
“I don’t see fellow African as a competitor but a fellow compatriot who is struggling to feed his family and have some comfort in this short life-time. If you feel undeserved in wealth distribution, please research again who controls that wealth and it has nothing to do with some Nigerian, Zimbabwean or Mozambican working in a restaurant or Ethiopian running a small shop, or a Ghanaian mechanic working hard in the sun.
“There is zero excuse to hate or despise any African at all; there are no merits for it and it’s baseless at best. “When African Immigrants living in SA start owning like 20% of wealth and not hiring SA natives, then, I will be on the streets with you to protest. Till then, if you hate fellow African for simply running a simple store, you are nothing but a buffoon.”
Several Africans have been killed in the past few days by angry South Africans who failed to trace the genuine source of their predicament. Humans are being burnt alive, while several others were hacked to death with weapons.
All these have been going on to the delight of the government of South Africa. There have been picture of Police standing by and watch South Africans kill other Africans in brute manners.
Meanwhile, the mass murder in South Africa has provoked violent action in several other African countries.
National Daily learned that in Kenya, people are angry; several people in Zambia had since on Wednesday taken to the streets, seeking vengeance. In Nigeria, youths have gone after investments linked to South African capitalists. These include MTN installations, Shoprite, which at the time of this report, were burnt in different locations across Nigeria.
The United Nations on Wednesday called to caution over the violence uprising in Nigeria in retaliation to the xenophobic killings in South Africa.

			
			Post Views: 
			0