A host of Nigerian stars came out to speak their might. In other to ensure a violence free society.
@VectorThaViper tweeted:
I just finished a meeting @ufitfly and we cancelled South Africa from our tourism destination for now. Since we are suffering people who can afford business class.
Popular Nigerian celebrities, including Omotola Jalade, Banky W, Funke Akindele, Peter Okoye among others, have condemned the recurrent attacks on Nigerians and other Africans in South Africa.
Pressmen had reported that viral videos on Monday showed widespread attacks on Nigerians and their businesses in South Africa.
The new wave of attacks saw the killing of Nigerians and burning of shops and businesses owned by Africans.
The President of the Nigeria Union in South Africa (NUSA), Adetola Olubajo who confirmed the development to NAN said on Monday that the attacks began on Sunday morning in Jeppestown area of Johannesburg when a building was set ablaze by an angry mob.
The attacks and killings have since stirred reactions from Nigerian celebrities calling on the government to take drastic measures against the South African government.
Nollywood actress, Omotola Jalade Wrote:
“Hmmm… I have had to think very deeply and try to calm myself down to even get to writing this. I am shaking and still can’t collate all my thoughts …This is Really Sad. It’s beyond. Xenophobia. It’s deep. What is the Value of a Nigerian life! Nigeria Rise up how you have fallen?”
Similarly, Funke Akindele wrote:
“This is so sad. Why? Must violence be the solution to every problem? I woke up to horrific pictures and videos of our countrymen being attacked and killed. This has to stop o!!!
“We all are out there hustling to put food on our tables! Why the killings. I appeal to the Nigerian government to see to the immediate end of this. All lives matter! #saynotoxenophobia .”
Also, Peter Okoye of the Psquare reacted saying:
“My dear South Africans. Karma never loses address! Karma has no deadline! Karma is a bitch but I love her! Revenge will never solve anything but trust me, Karma will. It’s Karma season. Dear Karma I have a list of people you missed. Say no to Xenophobia.”
Here are comments from other Nigerian celebrities,
Ebuka Obi Uchendu, popular Nigerian TV host reacted saying, “Why would politicians choose to face the rightful anger (from) millions of poor and hopeless South Africans when they can revert to anti-immigrant rhetoric and shift blame to those who have no voice.”
Banky W, Popular Nigerian Musician also gave his views on the killings saying, “This is not the SA that Mandela fought and sacrificed for. This is not the SA that a lot of us have come to know and love. I just watched a video of a man burnt alive in front of a crowd. It’s sick and heartbreaking. “Hell must be empty because all the demons are here”.

			
			Post Views: 
			0