Nigeria’s leading retail bank, Access Bank Plc, says it has designed a new package tagged Awoof Berekete to promote its Access Mobile Wallet service and also ensure that every Nigerian has access to financial services
The Access Mobile Wallet campaign which runs from August to November 2019, is an electronic wallet service which allows users to save, transfer, and receive money. It provides access to a wide range of financial services offered by Access Bank and access to all the Bank’s branches and agents nationwide.
It will see customers rewarded handsomely weekly for using their Access Mobile Wallet to make transactions. For instance, customers can get 20 per cent cashback up to N1,000.00 when they purchase airtime via Access Money Wallet as well as receive 10 times their initial deposit (up to N10,000) when they fund their Access Money Wallet and save for 7 days.
According to the Head, Business Development and Planning at Access Bank, Chinedu Onuoha, Awoof Berekete intends to encourage those whose accounts have been dormant or inactive due to various reasons – insufficient documentation, BVN etc. Customers will get 20 per cent cash back up to N1,000.00 when they purchase airtime on their Access Money Wallet as well as receive 10 times their initial deposit (up to N10,000) when they fund their Access Money Wallet and save for 7 days.
“What we are essentially doing incentivizing them (customers) to be more productive. Sometimes you pay N200 as transport fare to go and pay somebody N2,000. What we are saying is that you can stay in the comfort of your home and do that transfer; also that market woman on her way home can drop the vegetables for you. Those kinds of things can happen and help people promote efficiency and also make them live better lives,” he stated.
Explaining how the service works, Onuoha said that a customer has to dial *901# to get started or visit any Access Bank branch/Agent location. He pointed out that the service allows customers to transfer money, pay bills, top-up airtime among other features.
For Access Bank, we ensure that we make an investment in the best technology, make sure we partner with the best telcos; make sure we employ the right people also to ensure that we are always available and that we are able to service our customers. But if all of these fail, we have the largest contact centre in the country today, almost 700 agents. So the customer can always call in there and get remediation,” he concluded.
To open an account to participate in the Awoof Berekete campaign, simply dial *901# or visit any Access Bank branch/ Agent location nearest to you.





			
			PV: 
			0