An indigenous organization in South Africa, Sisonke Peoples forum Hlanganani Makhosi Oblanga of South Africa has called out South Africans to begin a nationwide protest today, September 2, against foreign nationals in the country whom they accused of taken over jobs meant for South Africans.
 
In a statement seen by National Daily titled: Enough is enough, on Selling of Drugs, on Property Theft, and on Our Work Taken by Foreign Nationals, the group called on students, music artists, civil servants, law enforcement agents and others to come together and protest against foreign nations on September 2, 2019.
 
The statement reads “We thank for the work done for fighting for this freedom in South, but the people who are enjoying the fruits of this freedom are the people who never fought for this freedom.

“We as the people who fought for this freedom, find no respect from the owners of the companies, and what is going to happen on the 02 September 2019 is to show our dissatisfaction to use our right to vote by taking out foreign nationals from our work.
 
The group vowed to block all the entrances to different places they live as well as industrial places until their demands which include taking back appointments from foreign nationals and giving them to South Africans who are qualified.
 
Let’s not fight the foreign nationals but we must tell all the business owners that we want our work back. Let’s us meet at our places where we live and voice out our dissatisfaction and fight hunger,” the statement concluded.
 
In recent years there has been spate of violence against foreign nationals living in South Africa with Nigerians getting most hit in the attack.
 
Recently the Nigerian Mission in South Africa while appealing to Nigerians condemned the unwarranted violent looting and burning of Nigerian businesses and investment in the country.
 
Nigeria Consul in Johannesburg, Godwin Adama appealed to Nigerians in the country to remain calm stressing that the mission was on top of the situation and would address it holistically.


			
			Post Views: 
			41