Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State an inter-denominational thanksgiving at the Cathedral Church of St. Peters, Bishopscourt, Asaba, on Nigeria’s 59th Independence Anniversary, urged Nigerians to embrace selflessness and sacrifice to rebuild the country.
Governor Okowa pointed out that building of a nation requires the participation of all. The governor said that the process should begin at the homes, with the rebuilding of the family structure where parents could direct children aright.
Okowa also Nigerians in the Diaspora to be part of the re-building of the nation, challenging them to emulate Prophet Nehemiah in the Holy Bible.
He recalled that from his comfort zone abroad, Nehemiah who was concerned about the problems in his native Jerusalem, prayed and assembled follow citizens and friends to return and rebuilt the city.
“The country requires everybody to be committed to nation building. We must pray and fast for the nation so that God will hear us.
“The church must continue to pray for Nigeria as only prayers can deliver us as a nation.
“For those in authority, we need to render the best of services in the best way possible, because being in position of authority means we must render services to the people and not be lord over them.
“When we stand in realization of the fact that leaders must render services, our nation will be better,” Okowa said.
The Delta Governor congratulated Nigerians, appealing that in spite of the challenges facing the nation, they should not despair “because the Lord is on His throne.”
The governor, however, congratulated Deltas and Nigerians in general on the anniversary but insisted that citizens must fast and pray for God to turn around the situation in the country.
Earlier, the Bishop of Asaba, Anglican Communion, Rt. Rev. Justice Mogekwu, had in a sermon, urged leaders to look up to God for wisdom to govern the people.
He deplored the prevailing hard times in the country, saying “Nigeria is not what it should be. We must pray hard for Nigeria to be better.
“We must be ready to stick out our necks and tell the leaders the truth; the country does not belong to any particular ethnic group, we all have equal stakes in this country.
“We need to fight against any injustice.”
Special prayers were offered for the country and its people at the church service.

			
			PV: 
			0