Governor of River state, Nyesom Wike, has revealed why he congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari after the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal confirmed his election on Wednesday.
The Rivers State governorship who offered the explanation Thursday, at the Funeral Service in honour of Late Madam Blessing Awuse, Mother of Chief Sergeant Chidi Awuse, at the St Luke’s Anglican Church, Emohua, said unlike some Governors of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP who visit President Muhammadu Buhari at night, he made his declaration public because it came from the heart.
“I am sure all of you are surprised that I congratulated Buhari. Is it not good for me to congratulate him, than to go to his house in the night? So many PDP Governors go to see him in his house in the night. I have never gone and I will not go. I won’t go.
“We are the only state that the Federal Government refused to pay us our money used to execute Federal projects because I don’t go to see him in the night and I won’t go. He is not my friend, he is not doing well, but he won in court, should I say that the court did wrong, no.
He, therefore, expressed displeasure that Rivers State has key links to President Muhammadu Buhari from the State, yet the East West Road, the seaports and other Federal projects have been completely neglected since 2015, adding that nothing indicates that Rivers State has prominent APC members working with President Muhammadu Buhari.
“We produce oil. They should not punish Rivers State because of me. I am just one individual. We have not benefited anything from the Federal Government. The only thing we have benefited is the abuse they heap on me.
“They turned the NDDC into a cash cow to sponsor elections against us. Nobody protested that anomaly. Now they want us to protest because someone did not nominate the management of NDDC this time.
“Since 2015, NDDC has not had its governing board, but nobody protested. I will not be dragged into such protests,” he said.

			
			PV: 
			0