The National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, may have suffered setback in his power tussle with Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State from his failure to secure the use of federal might to confront the Edo governor. National Daily investigation revealed that Oshiomhole suffered huge disappointment from President Muhammadu Buhari who declined to support Oshiomhole in the battle with his successor. The President’s withholding of support, it was gathered, created relative leverage between the APC national chairman and the Edo State governor.
There were indications that the decision of President Buhari to decline support for Oshiomhole in the power tussle with Governor Obaseki may not be unconnected with the appeal of the Oba of Benin, the Omo N’Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II, who during a courtesy visit to the President at the State House, Abuja, solicited the intervention of President Buhari to resolve the impasse between the APC national chairman and the Edo governor, both sons of his kingdom and members of the ruling party.
Moreover, it was also gathered that President Buhari has carefully studied similar political crisis in Lagos State where the political godfather used the party structure to stop former Governor Akinwumi Ambode from securing the APC governorship ticket for a second tenure in the 2019 general elections. It was noted that despite the intervention of President Buhari, the godfather went ahead to deny Ambode the party’s ticket to seek re-election. This was said not to have gone down well with President Buhari. Accordingly, the President resolved not to, henceforth, be involved in conflicts of political godfathers and their loyalists, especially, crisis that has to do with the denial of party members tickets for re-election.
National Daily learned that Oshiomhole had approached President Buhari, purportedly seeking support in his impasse with Governor Obaseki. The President was said to have, however, told the APC chairman to go and reconcile with his successor. The response was said to have disappointed Oshiomhole who had expected outright support from the President, and the use of federal might against the governor.
Meanwhile, Governor Obaseki has sustained overtures to Oshiomhole for reconciliation and restoration of unity in Edo APC.

			
			PV: 
			0