programme aimed at achieving cleaner, greener city

Lagos State Government has introduced a new culture of waste disposal
and management with the launch of Blue Box Initiative on Thursday by
Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu.
The initiative, launched at Simpson Transfer Loading Station on Lagos
Island, is a component of the health and environmental regeneration
agenda of the Sanwo-Olu administration conceived to achieve the
Governor’s vision of cleaner and greener Lagos.
The Governor, who described the programme as a fulfillment of his
campaign promise, said Lagos could no longer depend on unprofitable
waste management system. He said his administration was determined to
create wealth out of the 10,000 metric tons of waste daily generated
in the state through recycling technique that would also create direct
and indirect jobs in the value chains.
He said: “It is now crystal clear that we cannot depend on old
disposal method to manage the quantum of waste generated in Lagos. The
experience of the past dictated the need to explore efficient
techniques in line with our ‘Smart City’ aspiration. Rather than being
a burden on us, we want to create wealth through the new techniques
and generate jobs for our youths.
“In Lagos, 50 per cent of waste generated contains reusable resources
which we can be harnessed and channeled into the economy of the State
from the dustbin. This circular economy we are aiming to achieve
through the introduction of Blue Box Programme encourages the use of
another person’s trash as fixture for another person’s process. It
minimises waste in our society and generates income for the citizens.”
Sanwo-Olu observed that the bulk of recyclable materials currently
being harvested on the dumpsites by scavengers could not pass quality
test required for the recycling process due to high level of
contamination. This, he said, made it difficult for recyclers to get
value out of the materials.
The Governor said the Blue Box Programme was introduced to address the
observed challenges, as well as creating business opportunities for
the youth in this sub-sector.
By 2021, Sanwo-Olu said the State would have captured over 50 per cent
of recyclable waste materials from its dumpsites and reduced carbon
footprints in the environment.
He charged the Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) to
actively engage communities across the state by sensitising people on
how to harness recyclable materials for wealth creation. The new
initiative, the Governor said, would open new market and business
opportunities for both the government and the people.
Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr. Tunji Bello,
said the initiative was the government’s strategy to redeem the
aesthetics of the environment after a period of degeneration that
preceded Sanwo-Olu’s administration.
He said: “The pursuit of delivering cleaner Lagos to our citizens
necessitated our resolve to rethink our strategy in waste management,
one of which is sorting of waste. Our ultimate goal is to attain waste
conversion and buyback, which, in the process, would turn waste to
resources. This will ultimately minimise waste and discourage
inappropriate disposal in the drainage.
“Today’s launch of Lagos Blue Box Programme, which is to modernise our
waste management system, is a move in the right direction. This is a
component of our waste management policy aimed at attaining cleaner
and greater Lagos.”
Giving technical brief on the Blue Box Initiative, Managing Director,
Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA), Dr. Muyiwa Gbadegesin,
said the agency introduced the move to phase out a “more cumbersome
and expensive” waste management process, which he said denied the
State derivable revenue that could accrue from efficient waste
management system.
He said: “The Blue Box Initiative is a single stream recyclable
collection programme that will allow separation of recyclable
materials from the general waste at the point of generation. Residents
are to keep waste in black and blue containers at home. The blue
container is for recyclables.
“To kickoff the Blue Box programme, we are distributing these
color-coded recycling bags to each household through franchised
recyclers for separation of recyclables. The bags will be collected on
designated dates by assigned recyclers and transported to the sorting
hubs within the area at designated days of the week. Respective
recycling companies who are franchise holders will then come to pick
up the boxes.”
Gbadegesin said recyclers and environmental volunteer corps, who would
further educate residents on the usage, would distribute the
colour-coded bags.
He added that the volunteer corps would also collate and sort the
collected recyclables before being transported to Recycling Centres in
respective communities for further sorting and sale to off-takers.
Meanwhile, LAWMA has started distribution of free waste sorting bags
to residents to drive the new initiative.
Pix 7138: Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Olushola Sanwoolu; his
wife, Dr. (Mrs.) Ibijoke;   HC Environment, Mr. Olatunji Bello;MD/CEO
Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA), Dr. Muyiwa Gbadegesin (3RD
right); and children of Kids Beach Garden Initiative,during the
launching of Lagos Blue Box programme by LAWMA, at Simpson Transfer
Loading Station, Sura, Lagos Island, on Thursday, 5th Sept, 2019.
Pix 7182: Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Olushola Sanwoolu (3rd
left), in company of his wife, Dr. (Mrs.) Ibijoke (2nd left); HC
Environment, Mr. Olatunji Bello (L) and MD/CEO Lagos Waste Management
Authority (LAWMA), Dr. Muyiwa Gbadegesin (r), demonstrating how ‘Lagos
Blue Box bag works, during the launching of Lagos Blue Box programme
by LAWMA, at Simpson Transfer Loading Station, Sura, Lagos Island, on
Thursday, 5th Sept, 2019.


			
			PV: 
			0