Following the refusal of the DSS to obey a court order releasing Omoyele Sowore, the convener of #RevolutionNow protest and former presidential candidate, a new proceeding seeking to jail the service director-general has commenced.
Sowore, on Thursday, filed a contempt suit against Yusuf Bichi for allegedly disobeying the order granting him bail.
Through his lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN), on Thursday, Sowore filed a ‘Notice of consequence of court order’ to be served on Bichi, warning him that he risks being jailed for violating the court order.
“Notice that unless you obey the direction contained in the order of the Federal High Court of Justice, Abuja delivered on September 21, 2019, which ordered you to release the applicant in Suit No: FHC/ABJ/CS/915/2019 forthwith, you will be guilty of contempt of court and will be liable to be committed to prison. A copy of the said order of court earlier served on you is hereby annexed for your on-the-spot reference.
“This court has been Informed that even as at today, Thursday, September 26, 2019, you are yet to comply with the lawful order of the Federal High Court by refusing to release the applicant namely: OMOYELE SOWORE, in your custody. You are hereby directed to comply with the court order forthwith or you will be guilty of contempt of court.”
Justice Taiwo Taiwo of the Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday granted Sowore bail after more than 45 days in detention—over allegation of attempting to overthrow President Muhammadu Buhari through a mass protest.
Although the DSS sought to keep Sowore in detention after charging him with treason and cybercrime, Justice Taiwo dismissed DSS’ objection, on condition that he deposit his passport in the registry of the court.
Sowore submitted his passport to a Deputy Chief Registrar of the court on Wednesday, and his defence team also filed an affidavit of compliance with the order of the court and had same served on the DSS.
In spite of this,  the DSS had yet to release him

			
			PV: 
			0