(MURIC) has slammed Chief
Elder statesman Edwin Clark is taking the hit for allowing his Christin community to pull down  mosque under construction in his Kiagbodo village, Burutu LGA, in Delta.
The Muslim Rights Concern claimed that Christians in Kiagbodo community, the hometown of the elder statesmen, Clark, in Burutu Local Government Area of Delta State, have partly destroyed a mosque being built by an indigene, Mallam Abubakar Korokeme.

MURIC said the mosque was attacked overnight last Sunday.

The Islamic human rights organization said it put the lion’s share of the blame on the elder statesman.
“The buck stops at Chief Edwin Clark’s table. He is respected in the area and in the whole state and his opinion holds sway. Edwin Clark is well educated and widely exposed. He is a former senator. He is supposed to know better,” said Prof Ishaq Akinola, MURIC’s executive secretary in a statement on Monday.
“How can he argue that a mosque could not be allowed in his community because it is a predominantly Christian environment? Is that what the Nigerian Constitution say? Is Clark telling us that even as an ex-senator, he does not know that there is freedom of religion?”
According to Akinola, there is no continent in the world that Clark has not visited and he could have seen mosques in Texas, Toronto, Britain and other Christian states.
“Come to think of it. Abubakar Korokeme is an indigene of the community. Yet his people will not allow him to build a mosque. The mosque is not just on the street but right inside Abubakar’s private compound,’ he added.

He claimed that more than 80% of the churches in the North are built by non-indigenes., yet Christians in Delta State will not allow a mosque being constructed by an indigene to stand.

“We call on the whole world to see how Muslims are being treated in their own country and on their own land in Delta State. Even in Rivers State, Islamophobia is the norm. We charge all world organisations to note who is manifesting religious fanaticism.”

He appealed to Muslims across the nation to remain calm.

 

			
			PV: 
			0