Rivers Gov. Nyesom Wike has responded to the threat of lawsuit by Kano Gov. Abdulahi Ganduje over the alleged demolition of mosque in the Trans-Amadi area of Port Harcourt.
Wike has been denying any demolition, but the aggrieved, especially from the north, appear unconvinced.
Senator Ibrahim Shekarau,  a former Kano governor, was the first to fire at Wike. Then Ganduje followed, threatening to sue the Rivers governor.
However, a statement by Wike’s media aide, Simeon Nwakaudu expressed worries that Ganduje is still in the habit of making irresponsible comments about Rivers.
The press release, dripping with vitriol, played on the Kano governor’s name and his allegation of bribe taking (in dollars).
“Gandollars, sorry, Ganduje is still talking because he thinks that Nigerians have forgotten about his crime against his people,” said Nwakaudu.
“Up till now, Ganduje is yet to realise that Governor Wike is not dollars that he can pocket recklessly and sheepishly.”
According to him, the story was a fabrication by one Alhaji Tobacco, and it was orchestrated by the Daily Trust and The Nation Newspapers for mischievous political reasons.
“Several journalists and civil society groups have visited the disputed land and no traces of any Mosque were found at the location. Governor Wike personally led journalists to the disputed land and the world saw that no Mosque existed there.
“On Saturday, the Rivers State Islamic Leader/Vice President General, Rivers State Council for Islamic Affairs, Alhaji Nasir Uhor stated that there was no physical structure of a Mosque at the disputed land at Rainbow Town in Port Harcourt.
Uhor said the insinuation that any structure was at that location was not true, and he also admitted that a Rivers State High Court confirmed that the disputed land belongs to the Rivers State Government.
The Court, he noted, further ruled that the claimants had no approval to build on the disputed land.
Nwakaudu wondered what Ganduje would be telling the Court—to deny the Rivers State Governor of such powers, while he retains same powers under the Land Use Act in Kano State?
“The Press Statement attributed to Ganduje is a confirmation that this country is at its lowest point. This is the worst form of administrative ignorance.
Wike described Ganduje as a governor with a “bruised ego”, who thinks that this religious falsehood would afford him a backdoor entry into the national good book.
“Sadly, he has exposed himself as a terribly ignorant leader who basks in baseless claims.”
He further delved into the last general elections, and the role Ganduje and APC played in militarising the state.
“GANDOLLARS MAY HAVE FORGOTTEN, On December 8, 2016, Abdulahi Umar Ganduje, as Chairman of the Rivers State APC Election Rerun Campaign Committee, threatened violence on Rivers people at the Yakubu Gowon Stadium.
 “GOVERNOR WIKE IS NOT DOLLARS. Abdulahi Umar Ganduje, a man who enjoys bribery and falsehood, must realise that Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike is not dollars that he pockets with ridiculous abandon.
“Governor Wike is a lover of the rule of law, due process, religious tolerance and peaceful co-existence. He cannot be intimidated by the illiterate threat of lawsuit from a man of low moral standing.”

			
			Post Views: 
			4,679