After daring V.P. Yemi Osinbajo to sue him, (and he has been actually sued)Timi Frank has been rambling about issues unrelated to his allegations of N90bn against the vice president and the FIRS.
Many expect a thorough activist and whistleblower to be armed with hard evidence of an allegation like this.
But the PDP defender apparently has none—or else he would not be reacting the way he is doing now.
Here are the claims Frank hopes to present before the court to provehis allegation that  Osinbajo collected N90bn from FIRS to bankroll the APC campaign in the last  general election.

“Osinbajo should be informed that his statements against the likes of former President Goodluck Jonathan and Sen. Bukola Saraki will also be used as evidence against him once he enters the dock,’ said Frank in a statement issued in response to his suit on Thursday.

2) “Why Osinbajo didn’t resign and press a suit against the Senate “when the issue of alleged misappropriation of N5.8bn contract at NEMA came up”.
3) “Why didn’t he sue the wife of the President when she alleged that the Social Investment Programme of this administration has failed. As one who oversees that, I would have expected him to sue the wife of the president or waive his immunity for the relevant graft agencies to investigate him.
4) “More recently, it was alleged by the spokesperson of the foremost anti-corruption agency in Nigeria that the same N-SIP is riddled with corruption. I wonder why he’s not suing EFCC or the spokesperson.”
5) “If he is certain that the allegations levied against him from all quarters in recent times are false, then he can choose to resign from office to challenge me and others with a libel suit. This is against the background that as a sitting Vice President, he is likely to interfere in the judicial process as well as use public funds.”
Franks was formerly the assistant national publicity secretary of the APC. He dropped out of the ruling pat when he lost his position in 2017.

			
			PV: 
			0