Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has enlisted security agencies and other stakeholders to put a definite end to the proliferation of fake phones and devices imported into the country.
This new move according to Amina Shehu, NCC’s director, Zonal Operations, is part of the Commission’s way of ensuring consumers get quality service and value for their money.
Shehu disclosed this at a stakeholders sensitisation programme held in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, adding that “Consequently, we are here to educate telecoms consumers in Kwara State and its environs on the importance of using type-approved equipment including handsets and the appropriate disposal of the equipment.
Consumers have always blamed regulators for poor services, misconceptions on electromagnetic radiation from base transceiver stations (BTS), 4G/5G networks, among others.
Professor Umar Danbatta, executive vice-chairman, NCC, has explained to the public that their use of fake devices and equipment is the reason for the negative impact on the quality of services they encounter.
He also moved to enlighten the public by encouraging them to make use of genuine handsets and devices which would help prevent them from economic loss and contracting diseases associated with their use.
Danbatta also added that the commission had found it imperative to educate the general public on the effect of using non-type approved devices in the country.
He said that the commission was also doing all within its powers to ensure that Nigerians were saved from the hazardous effects of using fake devices in the country.
The effort of the Nigerian Communications Commission to regulate the importation of fake phones that have dominated the Nigerian Phone market is backed by the need to enhance its services to more Nigerians who are denied access to communication.
Some of the means to enhance services include broadband inclusion, demolition of unused masts as well as partnerships with ICT firms to drive rural-led solutions.


			
			PV: 
			0