The federal house of representative is set to  reintroduce the bill prohibiting estimated billing in the power sector to permanently end the wastefulness and unfairness created by an unreliable and arbitrary system that imposes unforeseen costs on individuals and businesses alike.
There would also be the education bank bill, designed to ensure that no child is unable to get a quality tertiary education in Nigeria due to a lack of means.
Another bill to work on is also the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Bill which will serve to broaden the local content Act and ensure the original intent of the Act is made real.
The speaker of the House of Rep Rt.Hon Femi Gbajabiamila made the disclosures recently at the floor of the house during plenary.
The speaker said he expect that in this session, the House of Representatives will consider important legislation such as the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB).
He further stated that he believes the  9th Assembly are ideally suited to surmount the obstacles that have mitigated against passage of this essential reform legislation which is important if we are to properly address the structural, operational and policy challenges and inefficiencies in the Nigerian petroleum industry, and position the industry to best serve the interests of all the Nigerian people.
In addition to the petroleumiIndustry bill (PIB), we will see the reintroduction of the of bill prohibiting estimated Billing in the power industry, intended to put a permanent end to the wastefulness and unfairness created by an unreliable and arbitrary system that poses unforeseen costs on individuals and businesses alike, the Education Bank Bill, designed to ensure that no child in this 21st century is unable to get a quality tertiary education in Nigeria due to a lack of means and the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Bill which will serve to broaden the Local Content Act and ensure the original intent of the Act is made real in the lives of our people.”
The Speaker also asked all adhoc committees of the House saddled with one assignment or another to handover to the standing ones by the end of the month.
“All ahoc Committees to wind up and handover to standing committees by September 30th”, he said. Gbajabiamila also hinted that the House would soon receive the 2020 budget proposal from President Muhammadu Buhari.







			
			PV: 
			0