Chido Onumah, journalist and author the DSS picked up at the Nnamdi Azikwe Airport in Abuja from Spain on Sunday, was wearing a T-shirt branded We are all Biafrans, and the DSS believed that was a sure way to causing crisis.
According to the secret police, it only interacted with him in his own interest and for the sake of law and order.
Many Nigerians reacted to the incident yesterday, describing the federal government and President Muhammadu Buhari as becoming more intolerant of criticism.
In a statement signed by its spokesperson, Peter Afunanya, DSS said the wordings on the T-shirt  was capable of stirring a mob attack to Onumah.
“To set the records right, Onumah was never arrested by the Service. He was rather engaged in an interaction during which an act of his capable of undermining public order and national security was explained to him.
“On his arrival at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, on 29th September, 2019, it was discovered that Onumah wore a T-shirt with WE ARE ALL BIAFRANS inscription on it. With credible intelligence that he might be a subject of mob attack if allowed to go into town in same cloth, the Service invited him and drew his attention to the implications of his probable (un)intended action.
“It was strongly believed that an attack on Onumah would have sparked ethno-religious reprisals with dire consequences for law and order and public safety in the country. He understood the issues and pledged not to engage in activities that may cause disaffection in Abuja and the country at large. He subsequently removed the cloth with the inciting symbols and inscriptions and agreed not to use it.
“The interaction between Onumah and the Service held in a convivial atmosphere. He appreciated the courtesies extended to him. Afterwards, the Service arranged for him to go back to his accommodation in town.
“It is hoped that this clarification has dispelled the erroneous claims and reportage that he was arrested. The Service acted within the confines of its mandate and only carried out its routine security duty that could have been discharged by a similar agency in any part of the world. It is not out of place for concerned security agencies to have sought clarification from a traveller concerning a subject of security interest.
“The DSS reaffirms its avowed commitment to the rule of law and protection of citizens and national critical assets.”
 

			
			PV: 
			0