Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa (left), addressing the National officers, Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria (APWEN), during a courtesy call by APWEN to the Governor, in his office in Asaba. PIX: BRIPIN ENARUSAI
        
 


 
Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State on Tuesday advocated that parents and guardians should encourage the girl-child to study science courses in school.
The governor hosting members of Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria (APWEN) led by the National President, Mrs. Felicia Agubata, in Asaba on Tuesday, said that the girl-child should be motivated to study competitive courses, especially, the sciences. The governor was of the view that with science-based courses, more job opportunities would be created in the country.
Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa (2nd left), receiving a souvenir from the President, Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria (APWEN), En gr. Dr Felicia Agubata (2nd right), while the wife of the Deputy Governor, Engr. Dr Ebiere Otuaro (left), and the President, Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), watching during a courtesy call by APWEN on the Governor in Asaba. PIX: BRIPIN ENARUSAI
Governor Okowa was presented with an award by APWEN for being an “Inspirational Leader in Job Creation, Education, and Infrastructure Development”.
“Your advocacy for the girl-child is encouraging.
“There is the need to ensure that more girl-children embrace the sciences and the competitive side of study.
Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa (right), watching, as the Deputy Governor, Barr. Kingsley Otuaro (left), assisted by his wife, Engr.Dr Ebiere, receiving a souvenir frOm the President, Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria (APWEN), En gr. Dr Felicia Agubata (2nd right), during a courtesy call by APWEN on the Governor in Asaba. PIX: BRIPIN ENARUSAI
“The more science-based courses we embrace, the more entrepreneurial skills that we can grow to check unemployment because unemployment makes it difficult to check insecurity,” the governor declared.
He emphasized that at primary and secondary school levels, children should be given good education to lay a solid foundation for their future endeavours, adding that the government had given attention to the recruitment of teachers.
“In Delta, we recently carried out employment of teachers with 90 per cent of them in the sciences, because we are emphasizing merit in the employment to ensure that we lay solid foundation for our children at primary and secondary levels.
“We are also doing a lot in technical education, because we believe that people can acquire skills in a secondary school system that is technologically-based.
Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa (left), and the President, Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), during a courtesy call by the National officers of the Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa in his Office in Asaba. PIX: BRIPIN ENARUSAI
“We have revamped six technical colleges and we promised to construct 19 more before the end of my tenure,” Okowa said.
He commended APWEN for choosing Asaba for its meeting and urged the members for their commitment to create awareness for the girl-child in science education.
Earlier, Agbubata had told the governor that they were in Delta for their meeting, disclosing that they were spurred to present the award to him based on the giant strides recorded by his administration in road construction, airport, education, job creation and others.
She commended the wife of the Deputy Governor, Mrs. Ebieri Otuaro, an engineer, for her commitment to the growth to engineering profession.

			
			PV: 
			0