Some aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State led by Senator Magnus Abe have dared the National Working Committee of the APC over plans to hold congresses in the state.
This is because aggrieved members of the APC said they have rejected the constitution of the five-man Caretaker Committee Members set up to manage the affairs of the party and conduct ward, Local Government and State Congresses in the state.
They came up with this after the Isaac Abott Ogbogbula-led committee assumed office after their swearing-in by the National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomole in Abuja.
Earlier, Chairman of the CTC, Ogbogbula while briefing newsmen at the party secretariat at Garrison axis of Aba road, assured of free, fair and transparent congresses.
Ogbogbula while disclosing that their mandate is to run the affairs of the party pending the conclusion of the congresses, encouraged APC members in the state to give all necessary support to the committee and allow peace to enable them take the party to the next level.
But, at separate gathering in Port Harcourt, the aggrieved APC members threatened to boycott the scheduled congresses just as they criticized and accused the national leadership of the party of being bias and working to destroy the party in the state.
In a 9-point communique read by former state Attorney General of the state, Wogu Boms said, “as critical stakeholders of the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who toiled and sweated under very difficult and dangerous circumstances to build the party in Rivers State, we are appalled and dismayed by the current situation of the party in the State.
On his part, Senator Magnus Abe insisted that he would continue to support the fight against injustice and wrong doings in the Party.
Meanwhile, the Peter Odike being referenced by the aggrieved members has called on Senator Magnus Abe and others to sheath their swords, toe the path of reconciliation and work towards a United APC.
Odike who led the Abe’s faction of APC in the famous Ibrahim Umar case in a statement circulated in the media said the constitution of a Caretaker Committee to spare head the Affairs of the party means there is an end in sight for the crisis rocking the APC.
It will interest you to know that the crisis in the Rivers state chapter of the APC led to the inability of the party to Present candidates to contest the general elections in the state at all levels.

			
			PV: 
			0