The Biafran Zionists Federation (BZF) has faulted the strategy adopted by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) to agitate for their demands abroad, describing it as shameful.
 
In a statement released by the self-acclaimed President of the BZF, Barr. Benjamin Onwuka, he said with Kanu’s approach, the international community would soon see Biafra agitators as terrorists.
 
Recall that IPOB members had recently beaten up Senator Ike Ekweremadu in Germany where he had gone to attend a New Yam Festival on the invitations of the Igbo community there.
 
Leader of IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu had also mobilized his group to Japan, where President Muhammadu attended an event alongside other world leaders, vowing to disgrace the Nigeria President.
 
Onwuka, who said diplomacy with international world powers, especially the United States of America, remained key to the Biafra struggle, said it was childish for anyone to dream of arresting President Buhari in Japan.
 
He said, “It is a wrong strategy for anyone to go to Japan under the pretext of arresting Buhari. I feel ashamed when I read what it happening in Japan.
 
“Let me start from Ike Ekweremadu and other Biafrans they are attacking, are they the ones holding power in Nigeria?
 
“That thing they are doing is very shameful. Look at the one they did in Japan; you are going to arrest a sitting President, how is that possible? I was educating them on the net, IPOB members said they are going to kill me.
 
The Biafra group equally cautioned the Nigerian Government against what it called persecution of businessmen of Southern extraction.
 
He singled out the Chief Executive of Innoson Group of Companies, Mr. Innocent Chukwuma, who he said was facing so much attack from Federal Government.
 
According to him, “there has been a sustained agenda to stifle businesses of Biafra people. Mr. Ibeto suffered the same fate simply because of Nkalagu cement, leading to his incarceration for several months. We fought and he was released.
 
On issues of insecurity occasioned by herdsmen attack, Onwuka called on all the governors in the Southern Nigeria to immediately commence the process of initiating anti-open grazing law.
 
He said though the forest guards being advocated by the South-East governors was commendable, “it is not enough to checkmate the activities of killer herdsmen. If they are guarding the forest, who will guard the local farmers? Most of the killings happen right there in the farmlands and not in the forest. So, there should be a total ban on open-grazing, with a law backing it up.”

			
			PV: 
			0