By Olanrewaju Adesanya
The  Lagos State Assembly has commended Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on account of his good start at offering qualitative governance, commemorating his one hundred days in office.
This followed a motion by the Majority Leader, Hon Sanai  Agunbiade on the need to commend the Governor for having taking right steps to entrench good governance in the state.
Mr Agunbiade, representing Ikorodu constituency one in the assembly,  said the governor had done well in view of the infrastructural and developmental challenges his administration inherited.
He said the governor set up his cabinet in a record time and that he had not even come up with a supplementary budget as is often the case.
According to him, Sanwo-Olu has done well in the midst of infrastructural and environmental challenges and within 100 days in office, he has been able to solve the problem though not completely but better than what he met.
The roads have been assigned for palliative measures to fix them,he has also visited some projects which would have been abandoned,not minding the fact that these projects were not initiated by him,like the Imota road.
He did not rush to the house for budget re-ordering or supplementary budget which shows he knows what he is doing.
The house need to commend and encourage him for which he has been able to do.
Hon Olawale Abdul Sobur the lawmaker representing Mushin constituency I, also noted that Sanwo-Olu had contributed to improved security in the state by donating vehicles to security agencies.
Hon Rotimi Olowo in his contribution commended the Governor for setting up interministerial committee to ensure projects completion and avert abandonment.
He  also commended him for his initiative in overhauling the state security trustfund,citing that much need be done on streetlights around the state.
The Speaker Hon Mudashiru Obasa noted that it is not out of place for the parliament to recognise and commend somebody who started well.
“We don’t base our judgement on artificial or physical structure being put in place but the expenditure invested in project and how commensurate.
Governance is all about listening to people and involving them, that  is good governance.
“This is an avenue to encourage the Governor 100days in office,we are watching and appreciate all he has done,we assure him of our support.
“We however call on him to do more as Lagosians are waiting on him.”the
He directed the Clerk of the house,Mr Azeez Sanni to communicate the Governor on the commendation from the state legislature.
The house also took the report of the 6-man adhoc committee on environmental degradation in the state,as presented by the committee Chairman,Hon. Moshood Olanrewaju representing Lagos Mainland II and it was after robust debate adopted a the resolution of the house.
Meanwhile, the Speaker announced a list of selection committee which he chairs saddled with the responsibility of coming up with the list of House standing committees.
The selection committee includes;all Principal Officers and Hon.Victor Akande,Hon.Hakeem Sokunle,Hon.Owolabi Ajani and Hon.Rotimi Olowo.
The house then adjourns seating till Monday,23rd of September 2019.






			
			PV: 
			0