Most people think that curry leaves are only added for flavor and throw the leaves away while eating their soup or curry. However, they are far more important than many realize, and offer a number of health benefits without any side effects.
Curry leaves contain various antioxidant properties which aid digestive issues and an unhealthy cholesterol balance. They are also believed to have cancer-fighting properties.
The health benefits of curry leaves also include aiding weight loss; treating various gastrointestinal issues diarrhea, controlling diabetes, improving eyesight, and reducing stress.
Curry leaves may help with weight loss, thanks to the presence of the carbazole alkaloids mentioned above, which may prevent weight gain and lower LDL cholesterol.
Research shows that the carbazole alkaloids present in curry leaves have antidiarrheal properties. Experiments on lab rats showed that carbazole extracts from curry leaves significantly controlled castor oil-induced diarrhea. Consume them by grinding up one bunch of curry leaves, and eat the paste or the juice of the leaves.
It is thought in many cultures that curry leaves help in preventing nausea, vomiting, and morning sickness. They also help provide relief from morning sickness and nausea to women in their first trimester of pregnancy.
Research on curry leaves has revealed that they are effective in fighting bacterial and fungal infections due to the presence of carbazole alkaloids. This compound is known to have antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, and anti-cancer properties. The leaf extracts from the plant have been comparable to popular mainstream antibiotic drugs.
A research study published in the Die Pharmazie – An International Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences showed that the anti-hyperglycemic properties of the leaves were beneficial in controlling blood glucose level in diabetic rats. [5] It further notes that curry leaf extract might even be more effective than glybenclamide, an oral hypoglycemic drug.
Curry leaves contain high amounts of vitamin A, which is beneficial for eyesight, according to experts. Vitamin A contains carotenoids which protect the cornea and the eye surface. Deficiency of vitamin A may cause night blindness, cloud formations in front of the eye, and even loss of vision in some cases.
Curry leaves are also helpful in skincare. The juice or paste of the leaves can be applied to burns, cuts, bruises, skin irritations, and insect bites for an expedient recovery and clean healing.
The chemical constituents found in curry leaves such as phenols are helpful in fighting cancers such as leukemia, prostate cancer, and colorectal cancers. One research study showed evidence of colon cancer-fighting properties in the carbazole alkaloids extracts from curry leaves.
Your liver plays a major role in the digestive process. Curry leaves can help offer a boost of protection from any attack by free radicals, as well as from viral and bacterial attacks that can result in infection. Research on curry leaves has indicated that the tannins and carbazole alkaloids present in the leaves exhibited good hepatoprotective properties.



			
			PV: 
			0