Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Timi Frank, says President Muhammadu Buhari is clueless as to how to put an end to the wanton destruction of Nigerian lives and properties both within and outside the country.
He started this in a statement on Wednesday while reacting to the recent renewed attack on Nigerians and other foreign nationals in South Africa at the weekend.
Recall that over 70 shops and businesses belonging to foreign nationals were looted and burnt down in the renewed attacks on Monday in Malvern area of Johannesburg.
In the statement, Frank said instead for the government to take proactive actions in protecting lives and properties of Nigerians, the government was busy organizing press conferences.
“It is most unfortunate that Gen. Muhammadu Buhari and his ‘yahoo yahoo’ administration is clueless on how to protect Nigerians from this horrendous xenophobic onslaught against hapless citizens.
“Since they are presently busy organising worthless press conferences, I took the initiative and spoke with Julius Malema, one of the most respected voices in South Africa, and urged him to prevail on his people to sheath their swords and allow peace to reign.
He also called on the President of South Africa, Cyril Ramaphosa, tourgently stop the embarrassing situation in South Africa.
He said, “On behalf of Nigerians, we plead with the South African government, its youths and the entire citizens to put a stop to the wanton killing of Nigerians and destruction of their property by irate South Africans and instead fashion out ways on how Nigerians and other African countries resident in your country can live together in peace and harmony.
“We agree completely with what Julius Malema said and I quote: ‘South Africa is Nigeria and Nigeria is South Africa.’ Therefore, let’s live in unity.
“May we also remind our South African brothers and sisters that Africa is one indivisible continent and most African countries especially in West Africa and Nigeria in particular, helped South Africa to fight their subjugation under apartheid by generously supporting them financially, materially and otherwise until they attained the abolishment of racial segregation?”
Meanwhile, he has called on Nigerians back home to exercise caution in their reaction to the annoying incident.
He said, “If the South Africans are exhibiting madness, we must maintain our sanity by not attacking businesses owned by Nigerians here but operating under franchises owned by South Africans.
“It is unfortunate that most business outlets now suffering reprisals in the country are 100 per cent owned by Nigerians operating under franchise. Therefore any loss of lives or destruction of businesses in Nigeria in reaction to what is happening in South Africa would amount to double jeopardy for Nigeria.”

			
			Post Views: 
			0