Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Waziri Adamawa, Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has thanked Nigerians for consistent support since 2018 he declared to contest the 2019 presidential election, through the electioneering campaigns, the elections proper and the judgment of the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal. The PDP Presidential candidate insisted that he would appeal the judgment of the tribunal which upheld the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
The former Vice President highlighted the vicissitude of his life from the low life of an orphan to his rising to fame through his career in the public service to the position of the vice president of Nigeria. He expressed his commitment to providing support to orphans and other categories of Nigerians to overcome obstacles and rise to high places in life.
The Waziri Adamawa also narrated his commitment to democracy in Nigeria, including his intention for the sustenance of democracy and good governance in the country.
Atiku, therefore, declared his resolve to appeal the judgment of the tribunal at the Supreme Court to ensure the votes of Nigerians are upheld.
Atiku’s personal open letter to Nigerians reads:
A Message of Gratitude to Nigerians For Your Support on This Necessary Journey 
Dearly beloved citizens of Nigerians,
I write to personally thank you for your support for our shared common goal and the solidarity I enjoyed from all walks of life and every strata of society, right from July 21, 2018, when I informed you, the good people of Nigeria, that I would contest the 2019 Presidential election, to Wednesday September 11, 2019, when the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal rendered its verdict.
Nothing good comes easy, and hard as the task to rid Nigeria from the forces of fascism, and be an instrument for the full restoration of the rule of law and democracy in Nigeria is, your support makes the struggle worthwhile.
I owe so much to this great land of Nigeria that took me from the streets of Jada, where I sold firewood, to the heights I have attained, by God’s benevolence, in the civil service, in corporate Nigeria, and in public service.
If I do not play my part in making it possible for other orphaned children, indigent youths and the less privileged, to replicate and even surpass my path to significance, I would have failed my Maker. If I do not ensure that the ladder I climbed remains accessible to those at the bottom, middle and top tiers of society, I would not have fulfilled my purpose.
And only by ensuring that democracy is not just done, but seen to be done, can Nigeria and Nigerians have a sense that this our dear land is indeed a land where Unity, Faith, Peace and Progress reside.
It is for this, and other patriotic reasons, that I am pursuing this judicial route: To ensure that the votes of Nigerians count and are counted.
Yes, those who do not want this as Nigeria’s reality, will use every trick in the book to undermine, discourage, misinform and mislead, but with God’s help and the support of Nigerians, we will ensure that Nigeria makes a course correction away from tyranny and towards democracy.
We must return to being Africa’s bastion of democracy, where the rights to Freedom of Speech and Freedom after the Speech, are guaranteed. We must stand together to pursue this just cause all the way, so that our judiciary are not afraid to do their jobs and have to be wary of blackmail, intimidation, and victimisation.
I note the immense outpouring of goodwill from ordinary Nigerians in every nook and cranny of Nigeria and from all regions, religions and relationships. Once again I thank you all for your support. I also thank the governors elected on the platform of my party, the Peoples Democratic Party, as well as the National Executive Committee, for their unanimous and unambiguous support for the judicial phase of this struggle, especially after it was announced that we would go on to appeal.
I urge all Nigerians to continue their support for this recourse to constitutional order via the courts. Even if there is little or nothing you can do to ensure that justice is done in Nigeria, just believe that it will happen. Let us never underestimate the effect of our belief in Nigeria.
Finally, I say to all concerned, that we will all die and give account of our lives to our Creator.
Thank you and May God bless Nigeria.
Waziri Atiku Abubakar, Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party and Vice President of Nigeria, 1999-2007.

			
			PV: 
			0