A political activist and former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, says the outcome of the Peoples Democratic Party governorship primary in Bayelsa will be the downfall of the party in the state.
In a statement on Friday, Frank said the APC’s candidate is better placed to win the elections in view of the fact that the PDP has curiously chosen to field a weak candidate against the APC’s flag-bearer.
“It is not my wish for the APC to win the forthcoming Bayelsa governorship election in November as I am not a member of the APC neither am I a supporter of the party, but from the look of things, the choice made by Dickson and the PDP is not inspiring. Actually, it’s disappointing,” he said.
Frank said: “I want to remind those that are surprised that this was the same position I took against my former party, the APC in 2015, when the former governor and now the Minister of State for Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva was nominated. He lost the election.
“History is about to repeat itself albeit in PDP because it is making the same mistake that the APC made in 2015.
“Therefore, the handpicked PDP’s candidate will lose the forthcoming governorship election in Bayelsa State.
“Bayelsans had looked forward to a formidable candidate in the person of Chief Timi Alaibe but some powerful forces from the PDP’s NWC and Governor Dickson traded Timi Alaibe for a weak candidate for selfish reasons to enable the APC to take over the governorship of Bayelsa State.
“I would have loved the PDP’s candidate to win as he is from my constituency but it is not feasible as this is a man that lost his local government during the last election.
The Bayelsa-born activist also commended and congratulated Timi Alaibe for his statemanship, adding that Alaibe has shown to be “a true leader but for those that collaborated and stole the happiness and joy of Bayelsans by manipulating the primaries, should beg for God’s forgiveness otherwise posterity will judge them for making Bayelsans go through such pain.”
Frank urged Alaibe’s supporters to remain calm, believing that a direction of whom to vote at the November 16th governorship election will soon be revealed.

			
			PV: 
			0