As gross loans stand at N15.4 trillion

Non-Performing loans in Nigerian banks dropped to a record N1.44 trillion in the second quarter of 2019.
This is reflected in the banking sector report released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS).
According to the Bureau’s report, non-Performing Loans (NPLs) in Nigerian banks dropped to a 4-year low of N1.44 trillion in Q2 2019 from N1.93 trillion. This suggests in one year, banks recovered N496.22 billion NPFLs.
The latest NBS report shows that total gross loans in Nigerian banks currently stand at N15.4 trillion as at the end of June 2019. According to the report, the percentage of non-performing loans to the total loan dropped to a single digit of 9.30%.
The latest drop in non-performing loan to a single digit makes it the first time percentage of non-performing loans to total gross loans dropped to a single digit since the fourth quarter of 2015.

A further breakdown shows that huge drop in non-performing loans was recorded in oil and gas, real estate sector, information and communication, transportation and storage.
Specifically, in terms of value, the oil sector, which controls the biggest NPLs across sectors, dropped by N193 billion at the end of June. The real estate sector ranks second declining by 96.4 billion.
Other major sectors with drop in NPFLs include information and communication (N47 billion), finance and insurance (N31.45 billion), transportation and storage (N41.7 billion).
However, the major sector that recorded rise in NPLs is power and energy with a 34% rise amounting to N19.7 billion.
In Nigeria, NPLs represent one of the most serious liquidity challenges facing the Nigerian banking sector. Bank loans are regarded as regarded as risk assets because the monies advanced as loans by the banks belong to depositors. The risk arises in the event of massive defaults and makes it difficult for depositors’ monies to be available on demand.
According to a report, the failure of the Federal Government to pay fuel subsidy to oil marketers has worsened non-performing loans in recent times.
Confirming the development, the Managing Director of SunTrust Bank Limited, Ayo Babatunde disclosed that there was a 100% suspension of income on the oil marketers’ loans by banks.
Recall that the details of the new AMCON law empowers the corporation to access bank accounts, computer system component, electronic or mechanical device of any debtor with a view to establishing the location of funds belonging to the debtor.




















			
			PV: 
			0