The Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) has urged airlines and air travelers not to panic over aviation fuel scarcity, as members have enough product in stock and have increased distribution.
 
Executive Secretary of the association, Clement Isong gave the assurance in an interactive session with the media on Thursday in Lagos.
 
It would be recalled that transportation of Nigerian pilgrims from Saudi Arabia has been disrupted due to scarcity of aviation fuel (Jet A1) in the domestic market.
 
On Sept. 3, the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mr Mele Kyari debunked media reports that the nation was in short of aviation fuel.
 
Isong said there had been no problem with the supply of the product. “There is aviation fuel; there is no problem with it. Our members have it in their tanks. I am not sure why it is not available to airline operators,” he said.
 
According to him, aviation fuel is a deregulated product, so marketers are at liberty to sell based on their cost price.
 
“l confirm to you that MOMAN members have Jet A1 product in stock and members have increased loading out and selling at our aviation storage tanks.
 
“We (MOMAN) have also increased loading at our facilities at airports across the country including our Joint Users Hydrant Installation at the Murtala Mohammed Airport in Lagos.
 
“We also have stock at our import reception facilities at Apapa and we are working with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to ensure continuous import supply of the product.
 
“I, therefore, say that there is no need for panic or disquiet with respect to product supply,” he said.
 
Isong reiterated that there was no cause for alarm while assuring domestic airlines and Nigerians of availability of aviation fuel in circulation as members commence massive distribution.
 
He said that marketers have been assured of total support by the management of NNPC in ensuring massive distribution of aviation fuel across the country.
 
Isong, however, urged Nigerians not to panic, while promising that the issue which was caused by operational hiccups had been put under control.
 
Isong said that MOMAN was working very closely with NNPC to ensure that the lingering challenges were addressed and the Nigeria aviation operations normalised.
 
“MOMAN members have opted for a seamless distribution of petroleum products.
 
“We are working to present a common front that will easily drive government policies and ensure smooth distribution of petroleum products across the country,” he added.
 
NNPC had said the current nationwide aviation fuel stock holding is robust enough at over 80 million liters translating to more than 37 days sufficiency.
 
It assured airline operators and other consumers of aviation fuel of adequate stock to meet their energy needs.
 
The corporation advised marketers to refrain from any act that could impede the supply and distribution of the products while the corporation would do all it could to sustain the seamless supply of the product nationwide.
 
MOMAN is an Industry group comprising all the major players in Nigeria’s downstream oil and gas sector, including, 11 Plc (formerly Mobil), Total, Conoil, Forte Oil, OVH Energy (trading as Oando) and MRS.





			
			PV: 
			0