By Olanrewaju Adesanya
A group of aggrieved National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW),have issued verbal threat that Lagos would made ungovernable if Mr. Musiliu Akinsanya (A.K.A MC Oluomo) is forced one them.
The group which staged a protest to the Lagos House to drive home their demand, notes that Oluomo is a serial killer whose reign as the state’s NURTW chairman will spell doom for the state and Lagosians.
The NURTW State Auditor Mr Ademola Olanrewaju who doubles as the Grand Chairman NURTW Odi Olowo Ojuwoye Branch A,( A.K.A Emir Ilupeju), who led the protesters critique the recent move to allegedly impose MC Oluomo, contrary to NURTW’s constitutional provisions.
According to him,they are agitating because we don’t want MC’s government in Lagos State,simply because we don’t want to die young.
“Lagos state government has been able to give us a little they can in terms of empowerment, by giving us what to eat and we don’t want MC to kill us,he has been killing for several years the records are there and we don’t want to be part of his dead victims.”
Mr Olanrewaju added that previously emergence of the union’s chairmen at different strata’s has been selective rather than elective as constitutionally provided.
“They had a meeting yesterday after which we heard that MC had been chosen to be the head of Caretaker committee chairman of NURTW in Lagos state.i
“Directly or indirectly they were trying to impose him on us because there was fracas in Abuja and both parties ought to be dealt with instead it was only MC’S group that was reckoned with.
“There has never been an election, they normally do selection, it was selection that brought the present National Chairman of NURTW Baruwa in not election and more so Baruwa is not an APC member, he is a PDP member the whole Ogun State and entire the south west knows and were all behind him.
“This is the generality of NURTW in Lagos State,we support anybody that would make Lagos governable for each and everyone of us the way Agbede has been doing it, since the last eight years.”
He however warned that a chaotic situation is imminent in the state if MC Oluomo is imposed on them.
“Get this fact now,if they impose MC on us all, you will start seeing or witnessing so many difficulties in all garages, even the Lagos state government will never be at rest.
“We want the Lagos State government to intervene and give us a neutral person that would make Lagos state NURTW governable for each and everyone of us.
“If they succeed in imposing MC,we are law abiding citizen and we don’t want a state of chaos,a bloodshed area,we don’t want to compound the ongoing xenophobic attacks happening in South Africa,we want peace,we don’t want MC that is all”.
The placard wielding protesters who had representation of NURTW members from different branch offices in the state,had inscriptions faulting any decision to make MC Oluomo their Chairman.
Some of the placards had boldly written on them the following inscriptions; “Baruwa follow the union constitution”,” We say yes to constitution, we support zoning,we say no to imposition government”,We don’t want a killer as our leader,we don’t want MC Oluomo”.
“We say no to thuggery in Lagos NURTW”,”Government should save us from serial killer MC Oluomo “,” President Baruwa should listen to the NURTW union”,MC Oluomo kill Saula,he is a killer”.
Meanwhile several attempts to reach MC Oluomo on his cell phone to have his side of the story was abortive as at the time of filing the report.

			
			PV: 
			0