Delta Statev Governor, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa (right); Evang. Michael Diden (left) and his wife, Evang. (Mrs.) Mary, during a thanksgiving service by the Chairman, DESOPADEC, Hon Michael Diden at Sapele, head quarters of Sapele LGA, Delta State.
        
 


Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has challenged political office holders to serve the people with their positions, stating that they are accountable to the electorate.
The governor at a thanksgiving service of Evangelist Michael Diden, General Overseer, Mega Praise Church of Christ International, Sapele, on Sunday, maintained that public office holders are servants of the citizens.
From left; Engr. Omene Sobutie; Senator Stella Omu; Chief Ighoyota Amori and Senator Emmanuel Aguariawodo, during a thanksgiving service by the Chairman, DESOPADEC, Hon Michael Diden at Sapele, head quarters of Sapele LGA, Delta State. PIX: BRIPIN ENARUSAIand SAMUEL JIBUNOR
Diden is Chairman of the Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC).
Okowa insisted that political positions are to be used to serve God through rendering selfless service to the people.
The thanksgiving was attended by the Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege; National Assembly members, Speaker, Delta House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori, and other top government functionaries.
Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege (2nd left); the Governor of Delta State, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa (middle); Speaker, Delta State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori (2nd right);Senator James Manager (lleft); and Prof. Sam Oyvbare, during a thanksgiving service by the Chairman, DESOPADEC, Hon Michael Diden at Sapele, head quarters of Sapele LGA, Delta State PIX: BRIPIN ENARUSAIand SAMUEL JIBUNOR
“Any position we find ourselves is by the grace of God; if you have the privilege of holding a position, try to work for the people; wherever you do, remember there is God above who made your position possible,” Okowa said.
Congratulating Diden for his appointment, Okowa thanked God for what he was using the man to do.
He described him as a philanthropist and hard working politician who was sincere in his actions.
Earlier in a sermon, Diden had urged political office holders not to act on gossips.
From left; Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege; the Governor of Delta State, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa; Speaker, Delta State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori and Prof. Sam Oyvbare, during a thanksgiving service by the Chairman, DESOPADEC, Hon Michael Diden at Sapele, head quarters of Sapele LGA, Delta State. Pix 5. Hon. Ndudi Elumelu and Chief Bennald Okumagba, during a thanksgiving service by the Chairman
“A leader should not listen and act on gossips; a leader should take time to verify the authenticity of the information he receives so as not to hurt an innocent person,” he admonished.

			
			PV: 
			0