The situation at Old Trafford so far this season has remained next to a nightmare with fans left with massive disappointment. This position has demanded a drastic attention which has forced Ole Gunnar Solskjaer to step up his pursuit to sign James Maddison – but may have to wait until next summer to bring the Leicester City playmaker to Manchester United.
Maddison
It is gathered by National Daily that the Solskjaer is keen to bolster his attacking options after a dreadful start to the season that has seen United win just two of their opening six Premier League matches.
The Norwegian tactician is desperate to sign a striker after parting ways with Romelu Lukaku and Alexis Sanchez, while his midfield ranks is another area he is looking to strengthen.
National Daily further learnt from claims by the Evening Standard that Solskjaer has ordered United’s scouting department to keep tabs on Foxes star Maddison, who has impressed since arriving at the King Power Stadium at the start of the last campaign.
The former Norwich City ace impressed during his debut season in the Premier League last term, scoring seven goals and registering seven assists in 36 games.
Maddison, meanwhile has also been linked with Tottenham as he has continued with the impressive form this season, netting once and providing two assists in six league games this season, but he missed Sunday’s 5-0 thrashing of Newcastle with an ankle problem.
Solskjaer is a huge admirer of the 22-year-old midfielder but it is highly unlikely that Leicester will be willing to part ways with their prized asset in the January transfer window.
Despite the Foxes reluctance to do business, the United boss will look to bolster his forward line in January after admitting there were no viable replacements for Lukaku or Sanchez over the summer.
Around £140million was spent during the last transfer window to bring in defenders Harry Maguire and Aaron Wan-Bissaka plus winger Daniel James.
However, Lukaku was sold to Inter Milan while Sanchez was allowed to join the Serie A giants on a season-long loan, with United’s inability to bring in a striker leaving Solskjaer short of attacking options for this campaign.
Rashford out with injury
The United manager said: “When we let Alexis and Romelu go, you don’t have to be a rocket scientist to see that it’s forwards that next time we’re going to recruit. We’re looking for some creativity and goal.




			
			PV: 
			0