The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the weekend emphasized that Nigerians are now anxiously looking up to the judiciary to have the courage to do justice in the Presidential election tribunal.
PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, receiving a Coalition of Young Professionals on a solidarity visit to the PDP National Secretariat in Abuja on Friday, stated that the general expectation across the country is that the judiciary, as the last hope of the common man, will be dauntless in addressing the substance of the petition by the peoples’ candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, PDP presidential candidate in the 2019 elections, in the collective quest to retrieve a stolen mandate through the legal process.
Ologbondiyan had declared: “As a party, we have made a solid case before the panel. Our candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, had also presented his case supported by credible evidence. We had presented incontrovertible evidence to show that our Presidential mandate was stolen. Every Nigerian now looks on to the judicial officers for justice.
“Nigerians are waiting and hoping that the judiciary will have the courage to do justice in the presidential election petition.
“In the face of the anguish, pains, calamitous events, bloodletting, strong division, resentment, insecurity, acute hunger and starvation crippling our country, Nigerians’ only hope is now in the judiciary to save our nation by addressing the substance of the petition by Atiku and the PDP.
“Our party urges Nigerians not to lose hope in their nation because we have no other country to call our own; even the judicial officers are also Nigerians, so we must keep hope alive believing, that like I said earlier, the judiciary will consider the substance of the matter and the evidence before it”.
Ologbondiyan added: “our party has continued to receive immense support from Nigerians from all walks of lives on this struggle and even in the diaspora. This is one cause that has united Nigerians, irrespective of ethnicity, creed and political leaning.
“We have been receiving outpouring of overwhelming solidarity from well-meaning Nigerians, including key professional groups, youth groups, drivers of key sectors of our economy, market women, traditional, faith-based and community leaders, as well as patriotic individuals within the APC, who abhor the manipulations of their party and INEC in stealing our Presidential mandate. We believe that justice will be served at the end of the day as the singular way to move our nation forward.”
The Convener of the Coalition, Alhaji Shehu Abubakar Magaji, was said to have commended the PDP leadership for effectively mobilizing Nigerians in the 2019 general elections in the collective quest to rescue the country from the misrule of the APC.
He had maintained that Nigerians are “solidly behind the PDP and Atiku Abubakar in the efforts to reclaim the Presidential mandate through the courts.”

			
			Post Views: 
			88