By Olanrewaju Adesanya

The Action Democratic Party (ADP) has charged the Nigerian youth to wrest their future from the hands of marauders, by being actively involved in the political permutations to reposition Nigeria with better current ideologies.

ADP’s National Chairman Engr. Yabagi Yusuf Sani, made the call at the ‘ADP National Youth Summit 2019’,held on Sunday at the Radisson Hotel Ikeja, Lagos.

Yabagi said ADP allots 50 percent electoral consideration to women and youths to galvanize and afford them avenue to advance politically.

“ADP is a political party that can answer its name and well positioned for Nigeria’s development, what we are seeing today is not what Nigeria is expected to be,new ideas and innovations move nations forward.

“Unfortunately the leadership cadre in Nigeria is filled with aged politicians who think nation building is their exclusive preserve and as such youth should not be given a chance,perhaps,their stand explains why though youths are said to be leaders of  tomorrow, that future never comes.

” Time has come for the Nigerian youths to skew and regain their pride of place in Nigeria’s politics.

He urge other states and the federal government to emulate the proactive step taken by some south west Governors to facilitate youths-oriented programmes and the need to call on the traditional institutions to embark on value re-orientation to save some of the youth who have gone astray.

Yabagi also address the nefarious activities Nigerian youths now engage in,which is fast dwindling the status of Nigeria amongst the comity of nation.
He also raised some posers;when,how and where then did they lose the focus and respect earlier accorded them?How then did a group that rose meteorically to the top and dominated the polity for decades were suddenly relegated to the background?

“ADP is set to rescue Nigeria from imminent collapse, youth will soon reclaim their pride of place,they should however shun social vices.

” It is a child of necessity, we are trying to change the narrative by attracting the youths to know there are new ways of doing things. Youths played pivotal roles for the uplift of our nation.

“We want to boost the confidence of our youths,Nigeria need risk takers and people who can think out of the box,but if the future is destroyed you won’t be able to lead,Nigeria is great so we need to energize the youths irreversibly so that you can say yes we can,” Yabagi said.

The host Barr. Nasir Bolaji Chairman ADP Lagos State while welcoming the participants at the summit,task the youths to take their destiny in their hands and galvanize a strong force to change the narratives and restore their political status.

Prince Adelaja Adeoye Chairman, Media and Publicity while in a chat with newsmen cited the disconnect between the youth and the leadership in the two dominant parties,who clearly have amass the wealth they now use to dictate the political pace of nation in their youthful days, as the summit is a main launch pad ADP is exploring to bring youths into the political system.

“ADP as a party is credible alternative, founded because we want to have a clear departure from the norms of the political system in Nigeria.

” An avenue for us to encourage and re-energize  the young people,that is possible for them to take part in political process, that would reshape and bring Nigeria out of the undesirable position we are.

“We don’t even know what would happen to our generation, not to talk the ones unborn. If things should continue this way then there might be problems.

“It is not as if young people are not ready,as debated by the said leaders that youths have sense entitlement,that is not correct but because the political space does not allow them to fester and exhibit their prowess.

The first speaker at the summit, Mr. Osanyin Oreoluwa, ADP candidate for Eti Osa constituency House of Assembly seat in the last general elections advocated; the need for youth national agenda, more funds to make education available for all,need for youths to sacrifice for the desired change and youth civic participation by getting up to be counted politically.

Osanyin also call for quick fix of the misconception in the area of strength in diversity,he urge that the nation need to eliminate fads and mere distractions,short lived ideals that have no durability , like investment in ventures that promote immorality.

The second speaker Cillr Jaymey Mclvor a Member of the British Conservative Party,United Kingdom however, mirrored the inherent potentials and blessings of Nigeria, stressing that the youth can change any system with enormous zeal in them.
“It is certainly not the case that we look at Nigeria as an impoverished country,what you have is a very special country,the hope and opportunity is here.
” With the massive divorce of Great Britain from the European union (Brexit) we have a very exciting future and Nigeria is part of that,as we would now have freedom of market.”

Other national officers present at the summit includes;Hon. Ibrahim Pam the Director of General Service, Dr. Lynn Olisa the Acting National Organizing Secretary,Mrs Tobi Awosusi National Orientation Agency representative, Chief Mrs Nike Jones and others.