President Muhammadu Buhari was all hot and bothered Wednesday as the presidential election petition tribunal delivered its nine-hour judgement.
Buhari, heading the second federal executive council, though, confessed he was almost lapsing into trauma while Justice Muhammad Garba delivered the judgement, which eventually favoured the president.
He said this while he received the All Progressives Congress state governors at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Friday
According to him,  it was a fabulous coincidence that it came almost the same time the first FEC meeting of this government was taking place.
“It lasted about the same time with the judgment. I thank God for that because I think I would have gone into trauma or something. So, I was busy trying to concentrate on the memos,” he said.
“The first memo was on the budget and it took more than five hours. So, while you were doing your thing (judgment) for nine hours, we were doing ours (FEC meeting) for about seven hours here. It is a very interesting coincidence and I thank God for it because I would have been in trauma or something of that sort.”
But the APC and his media handlers earlier claimed Buhari was not disturbed.
“Good conscience fears no evil report. I was unperturbed all along because I knew Nigerians freely gave us the mandate. We are now vindicated,” said Adams Oshiomhole.
Even on Friday at the governors’ meeting, Oshiomhole still goofed. He spoke before Buhari, insisting there was no anxiety while the judgement lasted.
In his contribution, the Chairman of the APC Progressive Governors’ Forum, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku-Bagudu, congratulated Buhari on behalf of the APC governors.
Atiku-Bagudu, who is the governor of Kebbi State, said, “This removed doubts from anybody’s mind,” adding that the governors were surprised that the President was able to preside over the FEC meeting while the judgment was being delivered.
“We were even surprised that you were busy presiding over FEC meeting that day, which meant that you were not distracted”, Atiku-Bagudu stated.
 

			
			PV: 
			0