Power generation companies (Gencos) in Nigeria have signified their intention to declare force majeure on their operations, saying they were being unfairly treated by the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Company Plc (NBET).
The Gencos said in a statement that they would be forced to return the power generation plants to the federal government and relieve their investors of the obligation of generating electricity for Nigeria because NBET was making it difficult for them to operate.
The executive secretary of the trade association of the Gencos– the Association of Power Generation Companies (APGC), Joy Ogaji said the NBET was making demands on the Gencos which she claimed were unfair.
Ogaji, said the NBET claimed the Gencos were not making pro-rata payments to their gas suppliers and in that regards decided to pay the gas suppliers by itself but with a 0.75 percent administrative charge.
According to Ogaji, the development would impact the operations of the Gencos negatively as they would have no funds to run their plants.
“The NBET on September 13, 2019 issued a letter to individual thermal Gencos directing them to obtain, as a matter of urgency, their respective board approvals or resolutions, bequeathing responsibility for payment of gas and transportation to the respective supply companies for an administrative charge of 0.75 percent.
“The letter gave each Genco three working days ultimatum to respond with the board resolution or face non-payment of energy invoices,” said Ogaji.
She also said the Gencos were contesting the decision because the NBET did not have the approval of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to make such decisions.
“The fact that NBET is placing the extortionist 0.75 percent administrative charge on Gencos who are already convulsing in the NESI is an aberration on the duty of care placed on NBET.
“In addition, going by the principle of privity of contracts, thermal Gencos have contractual obligations to pay their gas suppliers. If they do not pay, that burden remains with them.
“NBET claims that thermal Gencos have not been making pro-rata payments for gas from monthly invoices paid by the market. For example, from the paltry 15 per cent of the June 2019 energy invoice paid to each Genco, NBET expects each thermal Genco to make pro-rata payments of 15 per cent of the gas invoice to gas suppliers and transporters.
“Given that a thermal Genco’s gas bill is between 50 percent and 70 percent of their total monthly revenue, depending on their efficiency and tariff, the implications of carrying out NBET’s directive of pro-rata payments is that a thermal Genco with about 60 percent of its total revenue as gas cost, will be left with about 6 percent of such total energy invoice to operate the power plant.
This is because of the 15 percent received from the market, about 9 percent must be allocated to gas as pro-rata payment. This is certainly not sustainable,” she added.
According to her, each of the Gencos requires between 20 and 30 percent of its total revenue to meet its direct operating cost on a monthly basis



			
			PV: 
			0