Timi Frank, a former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), at the weekend scolded the President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Dr. Samson Olasupo Ayokunle, over his statement declaring Vice President Yemi Osinbajo innocent of the N90 billion election fund allegation. Timi Frank in a statement in Abuja chided the CAN President, urging him to stop denigrating Christians in Nigeria. He also condemned the CAN President for not rising to defend Nigerian citizens who have been victims of unmitigated violence, accusing Dr. Ayokunle of using the Office of the CAN President for purported personal business with politicians in government.
Timi Frank in the statement declared: “As a Christian, I am ashamed of the attitude and character of this present CAN President in the person of Rev. Samson Olasupo Ayokunle.
“CAN, in its original form, represents the body of Christ and Ayokunle ought to have known that it owes the citizenry or at least God, an obligation to win souls, be good ambassadors of the Church and crusade for good governance.
“As a supposed shepherd of the nation’s Christian body, if two of your sheep have a misunderstanding, I think you ought to have heard from both parties before taking a position.
“I am, however, not surprised because like pregnancy, evil cannot be hidden under tainted cassocks and collars.
“I have heard from not a few reliable quarters that he often goes cap in hand before politicians in the name of praying for them.
“It is shameful that the CAN President has turned the body of Christ into a political pressure group.
“At least, even if it is now a political party, he ought to have allowed its spokesman to speak on behalf of the organization.
“A President of CAN who could not get to interview the COZA pastor in view of the yet to be proved rape allegations against him, now deemed it expedient to defend fraud allegations against the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo.
“I have not seen the CAN President visit Plateau or Benue states and other cities in Nigeria where a lot of Christians and innocent Nigerians are being gruesomely murdered by herders.
“Let the CAN President visit grieving Christian families in affected villages, or for once, speak out against oppression and bad governance in the country instead of banding himself together with queer characters to grant press conferences in support of corruption.
“The CAN President ought to know that it is utterly reprehensible to turn a sacred priestly body into a partisan vehicle for alms solicitations.
“People like Chief Femi Fani-Kayode and Patience Jonathan have been falsely accused in this country but CAN never interfered in any manner.
“Also, where was Ayokunle when Prof. Yemi Osinbajo accused ex-President Goodluck Jonathan of sharing N150 billion within two weeks prior to the 2015 general elections – an allegation that was widely reported by the media?
“Could it be that Mr. CAN President, sorry, Chairman of CAN Political Party (CANPP) took part in the illegal disbursements of taxpayers’ funds at FIRS?
“Let him tell Christian leaders who elected him how much Osinbajo and Fowler gave him to organize such an ignominious press conference.
“These are men of doubtful character that must be urgently tamed before they inflict further harm on the reputation of Christians in this country.
“The character of this man is highly suspect but I apologize on behalf of all well-meaning Christians and their leaders for this attempt by Ayokunle to stain their garments.
“Late Martin Luther King Jr. was a religious leader, who used his position to fight for the oppressed and downtrodden in society.
“Let Ayokunle learn from such noble men how to be a voice for the voiceless in Christendom.
“This CAN President is a no show and I urge the governing body of CAN to act swiftly to correct the evil impression or else the present CAN leadership would henceforth be regarded as the servants of mammon rather than servants of God.
“Very soon, God would expose him and every other person that is bent on giving CAN and by extension Nigerian Christians a bad name.
“As a learned gentleman, I humbly advise Prof. Osinbajo, not to take the intervention from CAN as an endorsement. Let him be wary of characters who are out to drag him into further trouble.”
National Daily had earlier reported CAN visit to the Vice President at the State House, Abuja, on Friday and the subsequent statement by the CAN President in which he exonerated Professor Osinbajo from the N90 billion allegation by Timi Frank.

			
			PV: 
			0