By Chioma Obinagwam
Energy Institute Nigeria, in partnership with the UK Department for International Trade is set to hold this year’s edition of its annual Energy Sustainability Conference.
The conference, scheduled to hold from 16th to 17th October 2019 at the Lagos Oriental Hotel presents a suitable platform for all stakeholders within the energy industry to discuss, share ideas, and make valuable recommendations that will enhance further growth and development of the sector.
Under the theme “Energy Landscape: Minimizing Risks and Maximizing Opportunities”, this 2-day conference seeks to enable the knowledge transfer, foster relations, and sharpen skills of participants through specialist hubs, breakfast sessions and various industry specific panel sessions.
Speakers include: Mr. Tony Attah, Managing Director, Nigeria LNG Limited; Mr. Sanya Bajomo, Department of Petroleum Resources; Mr. Ed Ubong, Managing Director, Shell Nigeria Gas; Mr. Soji Awogbade, Principal Partner, Aelex Legal Practice; Mr. Derefaka; Mr. Adeleke Adedipe, Chief Operating Officer, Lekoil Limited; Mr. Yomi Awobokun, Managing Director, Enyo Retail & Supply Ltd; Mr Segun Adaju, President Renewables Association of Nigeria and a lot more.
Speaking about the conference, the Chairman of Energy Institute Nigeria Mr. Osten Olorunsola FEI said , “The dual challenge of meeting the demand and the supply side of energy on one hand, as well as being environmentally responsible and sustainable on the other hand, simply means that practitioners have to devise a means of pulling in two opposite directions at the same time.”
“This is the reason we gather all players across the energy spectrum to co-create solutions to global energy challenges,” he added.
Tackling climate change, he pointed, while meeting the energy needs of a growing and developing economy is matter of urgency. But this dual objective is highly complex and fraught with risk. What is certain is that it will require a fundamental change in the way we produce and consume energy.
Energy Sustainability Conference 2019 is organized by the Energy Institute Nigeria. The Energy Institute (EI) is the chartered professional membership body bringing global energy expertise together.
“Our ambition is that energy, and its critical role in our world, is better understood, managed and valued. We’re a unique network with insight spanning the world of energy, from conventional oil and gas to the most innovative renewable and energy efficient technologies.
” We gather and share essential knowledge about energy, the skills that are helping us all use it more wisely, and the good practice needed to keep it safe and secure. We articulate the voice of energy experts, taking the know-how of around 20,000 members and 200 companies from 120 countries to the heart of the public debate. And we’re an independent, not-for-profit, safe space for evidence-based collaboration, an honest broker between industry, academia and policy makers. The EI is here for anyone who wants to better understand or contribute to the extraordinary energy system on which we all depend,” he said.

			
			PV: 
			0