The Christian association of Nigeria (CAN) has reiterated its displeasure with the planned RUGA scheme, noting that anything that smacks of mutual distrust should be avoided in the interest of national unity.
The body therefore advised the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government to jettison the implementation of the scheme in any part of the country.
The President of CAN, Pastor Samson Ayokunle, announced the position of the association at a church leaders’ summit in Lagos on Saturday.
Recall that in May 21, the Federal Government approved what it termed the RUGA settlement scheme, to curb open grazing of animals nationwide.
RUGA entails the settlement of animals by farmers in an organised place with the provision of necessary amenities.
But in a statement at the weekend, Pastor Samson Ayokunle said, “We, the Christian body call on the Federal Government to immediately suspend and abrogate the RUGA settlement programme,’’ NAN quoted Ayokunle as saying.
He said also that the perception by many Christians that CAN had not been showing enough interest in national issues was wrong.
“Let me state it here that our position, although it may differ from that of government is not opposition but a way of helping those in government.
“Our position is a way of helping those in government by calling their attention to the dangers that may come from the proposed action if adequate caution is not considered.
“We, the Christian body also kick against the Control of Waterways Bill now before the National Assembly. The Control of Waterways by the Federal Government Bill before the National Assembly should be rejected.
“Waterways in each locality should be controlled by local authorities. God created the waterways there. At most they should be controlled by State Governments.”
Also speaking, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, said that he supported the position of CAN on the RUGA settlement issue.
“CAN must do everything possible to let the world know that CAN is one. Whatever the CAN president says is the final,” he said.

			
			Post Views: 
			60