President Muhammadu Buhari has decried the “undue politicization” of the security situation in the country.
Receiving promoters of the proposed African Security Leadership Summit at State House, Abuja, on Tuesday, the President said that no matter how much the revisionists try to distort history, “the records show where we were in terms of security in 2015, where we are now, and we also know where we want to be.”
President Buhari noted that the relative successes of the administration since 2015 are clear, “and what remains in areas of security are also clear, despite the politicization.”
He lauded the plan to convene a high-powered security summit that will bring together some of the leaders on the African continent, defence attaches, embassies and High Commissions, leadership of the defence community in the country, and many others.
Speaking directly to the chairman of the security summit initiative, His Royal Highness, Major-General Abdullahi Bagudu Mamman, (retd), President Buhari said:
“I am glad that you are well experienced, and know the implications of this high-powered conference. It will be a great test for you and members of your committee. You will be dealing with professionals in security, defence and diplomacy. We will do our best to support you.”
Major-General  Mamman (retd), now a traditional ruler, led a team under the auspices of Global Initiative for Leadership Success (GILS), which is organizing the security summit.
He said: “We share in the conviction of the administration to address the problems of the country. At assumption of office in 2015, parts of the country had been acquired by Boko Haram insurgents. Your seriousness and committed efforts have made us to now be able to worship in peace. Boko Haram has been truly degraded, and other forms of criminalities are being addressed.”
The royal father added that the summit, to hold possibly sometime in October, is being convoked “to involve the entire security architecture in Nigeria, and it will be under the theme, ‘Sustaining the Security Renaissance of Nigeria.’
The event will also feature honours and awards for those who have excelled in the area of security, “because we need to reward the commitment of our heroes.”
It was indicated  that an endowment fund will be launched to cater for families of those who pay the supreme price, and to care for those permanently maimed.
 










			
			PV: 
			0