As CAN defends Osinbajo

Following reports of rift between President Muhammadu Buhari and his Vice, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, the Governor of Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has debunked the reports, saying any claim to the contrary exists only in the realm of gossips.
Report emerged that President Muhammadu Buhari had directed Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo to, henceforth, seek presidential approvals for agencies under his supervision.
This was followed by the recent appointment of Economic Advisory Council (EAC) and disbanding of the Economic Management Team led by the Vice President
However, Sanwo-olu insisted that there was no crack in the presidency, adding that both the president and the vice-president were still working harmoniously.
Samwo-olu, who was represented by his deputy Obafemi Hamzat, made his position known during the inauguration of the PGF Media and Communications Programme Steering Committee held at the PGF secretariat in Abuja.
According to the governor, “I think it exists in the realm of gossips and rumours. So, there is no crack, at the time, the vice-president went to Zimbabwe to represent this country. It was the prerogative of Mr. President to go but he nominated him.
“Yesterday (Wednesday), the vice-president presided over the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting which is the highest body that determines what goes on in our country.
“We don’t listen to rumours, we deal with facts. The fact is that they are working together, it is just rumours, don’t take it that serious.”
Meanwhile, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has thrown its weight behind Vice President Yemi Osinbajo following the N90 billion allegation levelled against him.
Recall that Timi Frank, former deputy spokesperson of the All Progressives Congress (APC), had alleged that Osinbajo mismanaged N90 billion made available by the FIRS for 2019 election campaign purposes.
While speaking at the Christian Ecumenical Centre in Abuja, on Friday, Supo Ayokunle, CAN national president said the allegations are baseless and are far from the truth, adding that the church will defend the vice president.
Ayokunle called out Timi Frank to tender evidence or desist from tarnishing the image of the vice president.
“He has cleared the air that the allegation is baseless and there is no truth in it and that some people are plotting against him and he was ready to provide himself to be cleared,” Ayokunle told journalists.
“If there is an allegation there must be evidence and that it can never happen and will never happen. The church and the entire country will fight for him.”

			
			PV: 
			0