Manchester United fans have endured some difficult moments so far this season, but the news of Jadon Sancho possible arrival may give them reason to celebrate after all.
Reports reaching National Daily have it that Borussia Dortmund are already preparing for life after Jadon Sancho, but sporting director Michael Zorc insists when he departs remains in question.
Jadon Sancho
England international Sancho is a top target of Manchester United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, following the teenager’s rise to prominence in Germany.
The winger, 19, has kicked on once more this term, after an astonishing breakthrough campaign in 2018-19.
Jadon Sancho goal celebration
Sancho scored 12 goals and landed 14 assists in 34 league matches last year, emerging as his side’s most potent attacker.
And the former Manchester City whizkid was handed a pay rise at the Westfalenstadion last month – although his contract wasn’t extended past 2022
But BVB are aware of mounting interest in Sancho from the Premier League and elsewhere, including rivals Bayern Munich, while Jurgen Klopp rates him as “an exceptional talent.”
Dortmund know that keeping hold of the £100million-rated star long term isn’t going to happen, while Favre recently declared that Sancho “can be a very, very, very important player in Europe.”
Now, when asked about Sancho’s future beyond 2020, Zorc told Kicker “No decision has been made. But you don’t have to be a prophet to know he won’t play here for another five years.”
However, Zorc believes that Sancho remains happy in the North Rhine, having been trusted in a way he wasn’t at his former club.
“He has taken this positive development [at Dortmund]. I doubt that would have been possible with top English clubs,” Zorc said.
“We trust the players very early, and we are not afraid to let them play. He acknowledges that.”
Zorc added: “He’s an instinctive footballer, a street footballer, he’s always a footballer, but he’s always setting new limits.
“He does not sit back satisfied. He wants to play football successfully and beautifully. That alone is his motivation.”
Dortmund chief Michael Zorc
United are continuing to monitor his progress ahead of a potential move next summer.
However, Sancho’s situation remains complicated by former club City, who maintain a clause that gives them 15 per cent of profit from a future sale, and also a first-refusal option.

			
			PV: 
			0