After being slammed with libel for his baseless allegations against V.P. Yemi Osinbajo and FIRS, Timi Franks seems ready to eat the humble pie.
He’s, however, going about it at a subliminal level: by taking advantage of the Christian Association of Nigeria solidarity visit to Osinbajo.
Frank just attacked CAN’s president, and then, with all humility, softened his libel case, calling the vice president by fine names.
“As a learned gentleman,” Timi invoked the social reference for legal minds as he referred to Osinbajo while attacking CAN’s President Samson  Ayokunle who led the solidarity visit
“I humbly advise Prof. Osinbajo not to take the intervention from CAN as an endorsement. Let him be wary of characters who are out to drag him into further trouble.”
This mind game will hit many observers of the on-going allegation Frank made that landed him in legal hot water—that the Federal Inland Revenue Service gave the V.P N90bn to finance the APC presidential campaign in the last election.
After daring the vice president to sue him (and he got really slammed), the PDP loose cannon has failed to show any confidence he has a peg to hang his case on when the time comes for him to enter the dock.
All he listed as his defence was a similar allegation he said Osinbajo made against the PDP and former President Goodluck Jonathan—and the one First Lady Aisha Buhari made against the Social Investment Programme under Osinbajo.
The CAN visit, however, provided an opportunity to play some game: transferring his frustration on (Pastor) Osinbajo’s Christian comforters, especially the CAN leader.
“I have heard from not a few reliable quarters that he often goes cap in hand before politicians in the name of praying for them,’ he noted in the press release.
“It is shameful that the CAN President has turned the body of Christ into a political pressure group.
“At least, even if it is now a political party, he ought to have allowed its spokesman to speak on behalf of the organization.
“This CAN president is a no show and I urge the governing body of CAN to act swiftly to correct the evil impression or else the present CAN leadership would henceforth be regarded as the servants of mammon rather than servants of God.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


			
			PV: 
			0