Arrest over 120 looters in Lagos alone

The Nigeria Police Force say all Zonal Assistant Inspectors General of Police and Commissioners of Police across the federation had been placed on red alert to prevent the breakdown of law and order as protesters target South African-owned businesses.
No fewer than 125 looters have been arrested by the police in Lagos in connection with destruction of properties owned by South Africans in the wake of xenophobic attack on Nigerians in South Africa.
The Inspector-General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu, has also ordered water-tight security around embassies, foreign missions, foreigners and their businesses within the country.
The order is against the backdrop of the unfortunate attack on Shoprite outlets in Lekki area of Lagos Sate on 3rd September, 2019 by some miscreants who attacked and looted the Malls ostensibly under the pretext of protesting against the incessant “xenophobic” attacks in South Africa.
In a statement issued by Frank Mba, Force Public Relations Officer, the Inspector General Police condemned the violent attacks and noted that three police officers were seriously injured and a Police operational vehicle set ablaze.
According to the statement, the Force had commenced investigations and profiling of the arrested suspects with a view to establishing their connection with the stealing, malicious damage, arson and disturbance of public peace on the day of the incident.
“The Force is hereby reassuring all law-abiding citizens, embassies, foreign missions, foreigners and their businesses within the country of their security and safety,” it said.
“While recognizing the rights of citizens to air their views on salient national issues as enshrined in our statutes, the Force reiterates that these must be done within the confines of the law. Miscreants and criminally-minded people who masquerade as genuine protesters are therefore warned to stay-off the streets of Nigeria as the Force will not hesitate to bring to bear the full weight of the law on any such law breaker.
“Parents and Guardians are therefore enjoined to prevail on their children and wards to desist from acts capable of causing breakdown of law and order in the country,” the statement said.

			
			Post Views: 
			0