Comrade Timi Frank has asked the All Progressives Congress (APC) to desist from spreading what he said, is fakes news that President Muhammadu Buhari possessed a West African School Certificate (WASC).
Frank, a former deputy national publicity secretary of the governing APC stated this on Sunday, in response to a media report claiming, that Buhari sat for and passed Cambridge certificate examination.
Frank’s statement read, “It is a shame that Gen. Muhammadu Buhari and his lackeys have become so shameless to the point where they churn out blatant lies to confuse Nigerians. The question is: does Gen. Buhari have a WAEC certificate?
“If yes, where is it? Lai Mohammed had admitted that Buhari does not have a WAEC certificate and asked Nigerians to forgive him for not knowing where his (Buhari) certificate was 53 years after leaving Secondary School.
“Nigerians can now see why the APC’s government is clueless. This so called Cambridge source, who is he? What is his name? Nigerians will love to get in touch with him to ascertain the veracity of the information.
He argued that if Justice Walter Onnoghen was removed as the Chief Justice of Nigeria over alleged lack of full asset declaration, that for “General Buhari, who has no record of having completed his school certificate” to remain as president was in brazen violation of the nation’s constitution.
“Onnoghen was embarrased and forced to resign from office as the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) for omitting to declare all his assets, yet Lai Mohammed is asking Nigerians to forgive Buhari who has no WAEC Certificate and once lied that his certificate is with the military.
“General Buhari is now the Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces, yet he cannot fish out his certificate from the military authorities.
“Notwithstanding, APC wants Nigerians to depend on an unknown and unnamed source from Cambridge to believe General Buhari has a certificate. Why go to Sokoto when you can get what you lack inside your ‘sokoto?’
“The Constitution is clear. A minimum of school certificate is required to contest for the office of President. The law is also clear on the penalty for perjury.
“I want to use this opportunity to remind the presidential electoral petition judges that Nigerians are watching and waiting to read what their judgement will be.
“Give the right judgement by sacking Gen. Buhari because he does not have a WAEC certificate which amounts to a gross violation of the constitution and write your names in GOLD on the annals of Nigeria’s history for being men of courage and integrity who stood by the truth at a critical moment.
“Initially Gen. Buhari said the certificate was with the military. None of his course mates in the military could testify under oath that they did submit their certificates to the military,” he said.

			
			PV: 
			0