The decision of All Progressives Congress to zone House of Representatives Speaker for the incoming 9th National Assembly to South West, and even endorsing Majority Leader Femi Gbajabiamila for the position, has divided the lawmakers.
The division became more pronounced on Wednesday when lawmakers from the North Central Caucus kicked against the decision of the ruling party.
In a statement on Wednesday, spokesman of the group, John Dyegh (Benue) said the North Central caucus was not satisfied with the decision.
“We are not fighting the party, we are not. We shall not, we are only giving the party an opportunity to come back and look at the zoning and look at what we are saying.
“We believe in party supremacy. Yes, the party is supreme. I sing that, I say it, I believe it, I go by what the party says but this is democracy and I believe we should give the Green chamber an option.”
ALSO READ: INEC server: Atiku calls Microsoft, IBM, Oracle to testify
Dyegh argued that aside the fact North Central was the third largest contributor to the 2019 election success of the party, fairness and equity demands the zone is considered for the position since the region has never produced the Speaker or Deputy Speaker since the return to democracy in 1999.
“My party the APC in her wisdom zoned the position of Speaker to the South West and even micro-zoned.
“I am a party man and my loyalty to the APC is 100 per cent, however, the North Central zone has not been convinced nor given reasons why their votes should not count and why we should not run and we feel very strongly that there is still room for negotiation because we believe ‘it is not over until it is over’.
“We are therefore appealing to the party to have a rethink and rezone the speakership to the North Central for justice and fair play. We pray to God Almighty to touch the hearts of our Leaders to reconsider us favourably,” he said.
Dyegh, who had since declared his intention for the speakership position, said he took the decision based on his unyielding faith in a united and prosperous Nigeria.
He added, “It will only be fair, if the position of Speaker is given to the North Central, having taken away the seat of Senate President to the North East.

			
			Post Views: 
			79