Insists APC held no primaries in Zamfara



 

Senator Kabiru Marafa, representing Zamfara Central in the National Assembly, at the weekend blasted Governor Abdul’azeez Yari over claims that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) held primaries in Zamfara State for the 2019 general elections. The Senator insisted that there were no primaries to nominate APC candidates in the state, noting that the judgment of the Court of Appeal has vindicated him.
Marafa in a media interaction with State House Correspondents in Abuja, said that God will never allow injustice to prevail over justice, noting that Governor Yari has offended God for claiming that APC conducted primaries to nominate candidates in Zamfara.
The senator said that the governor has no basis for going to the Supreme Court to challenge the ruling of the Appeal Court, noting that the governor should seek repentance and forgiveness from God for misleading Zamfara people and causing them loss of quality leadership by the omission of APC in the 2019 elections.
Senator Marafa had declared: “It is a promise that God will never help injustice against justice. So, I have always believed that this God we serve will definitely at the end of the day, because God (brings) peace at the end, not the beginning.
“I’m sure most of you here are being paid at the end of the month, not at the beginning of the month.
“So, at the end of the whole of this thing, truth will prevail, undoubtedly. No fear about that. The truth is there were no primaries in the state, the world knows, Allah knows, the angel knows, everybody knows.
“So, even if somebody tries to paint it somehow, somebody will come, a good man will come and restore back the original paint. And the original paint is white. The white is the truth, the truth is that there were no primaries, and the Court of Appeal has just done justice to that.
“And I want to use this opportunity to thank the President of the Court of Appeal for an excellent job she did. You know, we were quite apprehensive from the beginning, fearing that we might not get justice.
“But they have done justice to that case and they have made judiciary proud and the people of Nigeria proud. If that has not been done, I was afraid where we were heading to.
“I read their judgement and I was really very proud of the way it was written. That is how judgments are written, not the way the state judgement was written.”
The Court of Appeal on March 25 nullified the primary election conducted by Governor Yari’s APC faction in Zamfara, upturning the ruling of the State High Court.

			
			Post Views: 
			58