Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), has raised fears about the dictatorial tendencies cited in the administrative style of President Muhammadu Buhari with respect to adherence to rule of law.
The legal luminary known for handling controversial cases, has Pooh poohed the Buhari led administration for not obeying court injunctions,stressing that it is inimical to our nationhood.
Ozekhome made the assertion while delivering chairman address/lecture at the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights CDHR’s 30th) anniversary grand finale celebration theme:’Human Rights situation in Nigeria, CDHR as an intervention group,prospects and challenges’, held over the weekend.
“We have fared very poorly on the protection of human rights, no doubt about that,the reports from international organization like amnesty international and the Nigerian chapter,lawyers committee based in America and different unions,European bodies,United Nation organization all agreed that Nigeria is very very poor in terms of human rights performance.
“Fundamental rights are daily breached,electoral rights are breached, militarization of the electoral process,police extra judicial killings,accidental discharge,parading innocent suspect as if they were criminals when they have not been tried.
“Breaches of rights,kidnapping, murder,mass poverty,bad governance,corruption these are human rights violations from different perspectives all have been breached with impunity.
“It has become more exacerbated under this government that it is very very intolerant of divergent views or opinions,intolerance of opposition, a government that has become so dictatorial almost trying be facist and absolutist that is why we have to be on our guard.
“This government has been subverting institutions using so called democratic process to subvert democracy itself.
According to Ozekhome, the Nigerian leadership has fouled and messed up this country for us and our children,it is high time the youth declare that today is theirs rather than waiting for the future which the leaders have sapped of its potentials.
“Judiciary against the judiciary, the NJC has just been used against the Chief Justice of Nigeria,we saw the National Assembly bieseged an attempt to topple it,we saw harassment of the media,human rights, killing of the Shiites, are more all these human rights breaches and this government has been a great culprit.
Ozekhome who received,’Advocate per excellence’ award from the CDHR also called on the government of the day to do something about the Special Anti Robbery Squad’s(SARS)misdirection of responsibility.
” SARS do more harm than good particularly for the police image,I clamour for the decentralization of the Nigerian Police Force, we need state policing as well as community policing as it obtains in other functional climes.
“I call on CDHR to be more alert to ensure that we hold the government responsible and accountable to the Nigerian populace.
The CDHR Lagos State branch chairman, Comrade Alex Omotehinse while delivering his address earlier, noted that much need be done to forestall extra judicial killings now on the rise in Nigeria.
” The Nigerian authorities at all level must sincerely wake up to the reality of life and do the needful as regards the safety of live and properties of all Nigerian.
“The rate of extra judicial killings among the security agency is worrisome and must be seriously addressed.
CDHR also disagree with the police’s expulsion of the trigger happy officers who killed Kolade Johnson,demanding that they should be prosecuted and the bereaved family adequately
compensated.
” We are calling on the Inspector General of Police to fast track the prosecution of the culprits and pay proper compensation to the family of the victim”.
One of the awardees Yeye Omolara Fashola Fanimokun,SSA Presidential Committee Buhari/Osinbajo 2019 while speaking with newsmen noted that human rights protection is key to a functional society.
According to her no country can thrive without the social agent like CDHR all out to tackle breaches of rights. She added that more women should get active politically to contribute their quota in building a prosperous nation.
Other recipients of CDHR awards includes:the Ooni of Ife His Imperial Majesty, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi,Ojaja II,His Royal Majesty Oba Fakayode Adesina Faluade Ilufemiloye 1,the Olu of Ibogun Owu kingdom and others.

			
			Post Views: 
			70