A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers state, Chief Chukwuemeka Eze says Senator Magnus Abe wants to kill him and his family because of the way he exposed him as a PDP mole in Rivers APC.

Eze, in an online statement on Sunday, disclosed that some allies of Abe had called him and threatened that his entire family would be wiped out, for his utterances against the senator.

He therefore called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, to come to his aid and protect him and members of his family from the threats to their lives.

He said: “Abe is Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) mole in APC. Abe is a selfish and ambitious man, who will do anything for power. Abe is angry that I exposed how he teamed up with elements within and outside Rivers State to ensure that APC in Rivers State did not field candidates in the just-concluded general elections.

“I also exposed how Abe ceaselessly castigated and impugned the personality of Rt. Hon. Amaechi, his (Abe’s) benefactor and mentor.”
ALSO READ: Ajeromi reps tussle: INEC declares Kolawole Taiwo winner 
Abe is a former Secretary to the Rivers State Government (SSG) in the administration of Rotimi Amaechi, now Transportation Minister.

The statement continued: “To expose the intentions of Abe and his boys, an associate of the Senator, one Augustine, called me on Saturday morning with mobile number 08183636808, saying they had set up a militia committee to monitor and kill me and all members of my family, for what I wrote about their principal (Abe), to confirm why they were called vultures.”

Eze also stated that he did not know what he did to warrant the threats, besides exposing the plots by Abe against Amaechi, while alleging that the senator was using APC platform to lobby for ministerial appointment.

He noted that although he had reported the threats to the Rivers police command, but he declared that should anything unfortunate happen to him or any member of his family, Abe should be arrested.











			
			Post Views: 
			158