The Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has levelled fresh accusations against the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).

In a statement on Monday, by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP claimed to have intelligence proving that INEC was replacing all the servers at its headquarters in Abuja and all its offices in the 36 states of the federation in a bid to obliterate the “actual result” of the February 23 presidential election.

This according to the party proves INEC guilty in the manipulation and rigging of the 2019 presidential election.

The statement read: “The PDP has been well briefed on how the INEC leadership and officials of the Buhari Presidency became jittery and resorted to the desperate measure, after they realized that the servers have information of Atiku Abubakar’s victory at the election.

“Our party also has details of how the INEC leadership and the Presidency agents procured and detailed computer experts to the commission’s offices to switch the servers, mutilate vital information in the system and attempt to erase all trails of transmitted results to the main server.
ALSO READ: Post-2019 elections: Amaechi, Akpabio hold reconciliation meeting
“Moreover, our party has been informed about how the INEC leadership, several weeks after the election, used some compromised officials of the commission to manipulate voter registers in some states by ticking names of individuals who did not participate in the Presidential election, as having voted. This is with the view to using such to cover the fictitious results it wrote for the APC.

“What INEC and the Buhari Presidency do not understand is that computer software and applications leave traces, signatures as well as footmark. Forensic investigation of the system will reveal the real votes transmitted from the polling centers, which show Atiku Abubakar as the winner of the election.

“The PDP therefore, insists on forensic examination of all relevant documents and equipment used for the presidential election.”

PDP however, said it would remain strong, be at alert and work relentlessly to reclaim what it termed its “stolen mandate.”











			
			Post Views: 
			95