Frank Lampard can’t get his head around why VAR will not be used in the Championship play-off final next month.
The richest game world football has an estimated £160million on the line.
But there will be no support for the officials at Wembley with the winning side enjoying the Premier League high-life.
Derby County manager Lampard says VAR shouldn’t just be used at the play-off final – it should be used in every Championship fixture.
“It will come, it’s just a matter of when,” Lampard, whose side are sixth, said.
“There is a lot to lose and that’s why it’s a big ask to ask people not to become slightly frustrated in moments.
“VAR is coming to the Premier League and it has to come to the Championship because it’s very difficult for referees.
“I actually want dialogue with referees and I want to understand their decisions.
“I understand they’re human and make mistakes, as I do as a manager and as the players do.
ALSO READ :Zidane, Lampard shortlisted by Chelsea
“So I think VAR at its best – and it still needs to be honed to make sure it’s at its best and that might take a period of time – to give the referees more eyes to get decisions right is a no-brainer.”
VAR will not be used in this season’s Championship play-off final at Wembley as it has not been used in league games this season.
Lampard has been charged for comments made to an official after the Rams game with Birmingham.
“I’m surprised because it was very clear on the day that we should have had a penalty towards the end of the game,” he said.
“That was my frustration and I think if you asked any manager in the league, even the most mild-mannered ones, what we ask for sometimes is some interaction with the referees as to why some decisions did or didn’t go for us and I wasn’t acknowledged at all.
“I would love to walk into the tunnel every game and just happily move on with my life and not be worried too much that we’re fighting for the play-offs but it doesn’t work that way.
“A lot of heated conversations happen in football between players, fans, managers, team-mates and referees because they are a big part of the game and they have to interact.
“So I don’t think they can turn their face to you when you’re asking a question, even if you’re asking it in a fairly strong manner.
“I’d rather have a strong answer to my face and I didn’t get that.”

			
			Post Views: 
			53