Civilians resist military threats

The political crisis in Sudan is getting worse as civilian protesters insist on the exit of the military from power, agitating that the protest was not done for them but for restoration of democracy in the country.   The crowd has continued to increase after the removal of President Omar Al Bashir.



At the Army Headquarters in Khartoum, protesters set up large tents and handed out water to the swelling crowd. Some chatted with soldiers posted outside, saying their quarrel is with the commanders who had led the coup, not the rank and file.
Vast crowds were expected to throng the streets of Khartoum and its twin city Omdurman after the main weekly Muslim prayers at noon on Friday, raising fears of confrontation between protesters and the security forces.
Al-Abideen, a member of the Military Council, warned protesters that the army would not tolerate further unrest.
“Protest is guaranteed, but it is forbidden to infringe on the freedom of others. We will be very decisive with whoever closes a road or a bridge,” he said.
However, the protesters are not deterred by the threat. They have rather remained adamant, insisting that the military must quit.
The Military Council had earlier announced that it would not extradite al-Bashir to face allegations of genocide at the International Criminal Court in The Hague. “We may try him, but we will not hand him over”, al-Abideen said.
Ibn Auf, Head of the Military Council, said on Thursday that al-Bashir was being detained in a “safe place”. Sudanese sources told Reuters news agency that the long time ruler was at the presidential residence under “heavy guard”.
Ibn Auf also announced a state of emergency, a nationwide ceasefire and the suspension of the constitution.
World powers, including the United States and Britain, said they supported a peaceful and democratic transition sooner than two years. China said it would continue to seek cooperation with Sudan regardless of the political situation.
Antonio Guterres, UN chief, called for a transition that would meet the “democratic aspirations” of the Sudanese people and appealed for “calm and utmost restraint by all”.







			
			Post Views: 
			85