Inter boss Luciano Spalletti has confirmed that Mauro Icardi will start against Genoa. “Marotta’s work was decisive, we’re stronger with him now.”
Icardi was stripped of Inter’s captaincy on February 13 and went in exile for the following six weeks, not training in that time.
However, after being overlooked for the defeat to Lazio, the striker will make his first appearance for two months on Wednesday.
“Every game is important,” began Spalletti at a Press conference.
“The table has tightened and results are needed. This is the first one we face and we must do well in it.
“The team have trained well. We must fight physically before we can in a technical sense. Mauro has been called up.
“Marotta’s work was decisive in letting the parties come together in a real way. It was a coming-together that has now put Mauro in a position to help the team.
“If mediation is born to dictate conditions, it becomes more complicated. In the context of our team, Mauro’s worth more than Messi and Ronaldo put together.
“However, he’s not alone because in football you need bolted shoes and sweat. No-one comes out as a winner, but a point of reference was needed to start over. And that point is the table.
“We’ll start over from third place with all our available power, which will allow us to fight for our objective until the end of the season.
“Mauro’s able to drag the team forward when he’s in it. From the outside, no. In these last few training sessions and without sending messages on social media, he’s regained his place in the squad.
“The fans are right to take their positions. They know how to assess the situation. He trained on Sunday.
“Yesterday he took a bludgeoning from his teammates, but he believes in the right way.
“Now we all go to work for the good of Inter. We must be by his side at every moment. For as long as I’m here, I’ll be on the side of Inter, that is, the club, team, fans and myself a little, not just one player.
“We’ve already started over because we made Sunday our starting point, with Mauro sending correct messages to the team.
“For us, he’s a player to follow if he is one metre ahead. We’re stronger with him now. Whoever says we’re weaker are against us.
“The case is closed in all respects. Now he needs to train, sweat, smell the grass and not talk through other people.
“If not, he won’t become credible in front of the team. After this incident, Icardi is in the team.
“He’ll start tomorrow. The head counts for more than muscle. He gave the right reaction. He’ll play and see if he needs taking off.
“His response will show us whether he can play for the entire match.”
Spalletti was then asked about his comments after the loss to Lazio, where he accused the Argentine of ‘humiliating’ him, and whether the 26-year-old had apologised to the team.
“I had to say something to defend the team,” he explained.
“He’s worked perfectly. Our sporting department know that too. He wasn’t called up and he paid what he had to pay, from our point of view.
“Now we need to take advantage of Marotta’s work.”

			
			PV: 
			0