Officials said 30 people died and several others were injured in the rains accompanied with dust-storm in several parts of the country including Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Manipur.
As many as nine persons, including four children, died in Rajasthan as lightning struck many areas in the state.
In another western state of Gujarat, nine people were killed in accidents following thunderstorm and dust storm.
Several districts in Gujarat like Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Banaskantha, Patan, Mehsana, Sabarkantha and Anand were severely affected. Crops in these areas were ruined due to heavy rain and storm. A large number of vegetables ready to be sent to local markets were also damaged, said the local media reports. At least 10 people died due to lightning-related incidents in the central state of Madhya Pradesh. Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, expressed grief at the loss of lives and property. “Modi has expressed grief at the loss of lives due to unseasonal rains and storms in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and various parts of the country. The government is doing its best to provide all possible assistance to those affected. The situation is being monitored closely,” said the official tweeter handle of the Prime Minister Office. An ex-gratia compensation of 200,000 Indian Rupees (2,879 dollars) each for the next of kin of those, who lost their lives has been approved from the “Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund.” 50,000 Indian Rupees each for the injured has also been approved. “Authorities are monitoring the situation very closely. All possible assistance is being given to those affected,” said Modi in another tweet. Meanwhile, the “India Meteorological Department (IMD)” has forecast heavy rainfall in parts of Gujarat on Wednesday. The IMD has also issued a storm alert for Himachal Pradesh, saying the storm is expected to attain a speed of 50 km per hour. Lower areas in Himachal Pradesh experienced light to heavy showers with gusty winds on Tuesday night, NAN reported.


			
			PV: 
			0