Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to pick the next Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) from the South –East to correct his past mistakes of “perceived marginalisation of the Igbo” in his first tenure.
The group stated this in a statement on Saturday by its president-general, Okechukwu Isiguzoro.
According to them, the Senate presidency position should go to the North- East as proposed by the governing All Progressives Congress (APC), while the North East in turn should relinquish the office of SGF to the South -East.
“The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council demands from Presidency the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation as the rightful means of re- writing the past mistakes of perceived marginalisation of the Igbo in the first tenure of the Buhari presidency.
“We are also supporting the Senate Presidency to go to the North- East as we expect the North -East to relinquish the office of SGF to the South -East. We have eminent personalities from the region who are qualified for the job. The Presidency should allow its appointments to reflect the principle of federal character as the position of the SFG will heal the injustice of the past and unite Nigeria as one,” the statement read.
The statement also revealed what the group plans to do over the tussle for the 9th National Assembly leadership.
It said, “The leadership of Ohanaeze youth council will storm the National Assembly soonest to persuade Igbo lawmakers to take destiny in their hands and resist any attempt by external factors to impose on them unpopular candidates for the leadership of the Senate and House of Representatives.
“The independence of the legislature remains the hope of Nigerians. Any imposed leadership of the Senate and House of Representatives will turn the 9th Assembly to a rubber stamp and will make them impotent in checkmating the excesses of the Executive arm of the government.”
The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth meanwhile frowned at a statement credited to the national president of the Arewa Youths Consultative Forum, Yerima Shettima that the North would present a better presidential candidate in 2023.
Faulting the statement, the Ohanaeze youth said such comment proved that Shettima was acting out a script put together by the Northern Elders Forum.

			
			Post Views: 
			100