Pandemonium broke out last Wednesday in Iwoye-Yewa in the Yewa South Local Government Area of Ogun State, following the alleged killing of two prominent members of the community by a middle-aged farmer, Oladosu Nureni.
It was  learnt that the suspect reportedly shot dead one Ajayi Onifade, who was the Amuludun of Iwoye land, and Olatunji Ayinla, a prominent hunter in the community.

It was gathered that the incidents had thrown the sleepy and agrarian town into mourning.

A resident of the community, who craved anonymity, said that Nureni, whose house is a stone’s throw from the late Onifade’s house, shot the victim at close range while mounting his motorcycle to go to the farm.

The source added that Ayinla was also allegedly shot by Nureni and died on the spot during a manhunt for the suspect.

According to the source, Onifade gave up the ghost on Friday at the Federal Medical Centre, Idi-Aba, Abeokuta, where he was taken to for treatment.

The suspect, as of the time of filing this report, was said to be prowling the town and threatening to kill eight more people if they attempted to apprehend him.

When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incidents.

Oyeyemi said the suspect was believed to be suffering from a mental disorder.

He said the suspect shot his neighbour dead and ran away.

The PPRO stated, “The suspect ran away after he shot one of his neighbours. And in the course of being arrested by some hunters, he shot another one dead and escaped.

“A manhunt has been launched for him and we will surely apprehend and prosecute him.”

Speaking with our correspondent on the telephone on Sunday, the eldest child of Onifade, Seyi, said the matter had been reported at the Ilaro Police Division but expressed his disappointment that the suspect had yet to be apprehended by the police.

He alleged that efforts by the community to launch another manhunt for the suspect in order to apprehend him were being thwarted by the police.

Seyi said urgent action must be taken to arrest the suspect, who had continued to instil fear in the residents of Iwoye by threatening to deal ruthlessly with anybody who dared to be part of the search party for him.

This action, according to Seyi, has forced many residents to flee the community.

			
			Post Views: 
			184