The Peoples Democratic Party in Plateau State has suspended its Chairman, Mr. Damishi Sango. The party also suspended the Deputy Chairman of the party, Mr Amos Gombi.
State Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. John Akans, who confirmed the suspension of the two party officials to our correspondent in Jos on Wednesday said that the former Minister of Sports has been replaced with Mr Chris Hassan, who before now was a zonal chairman of the party, to serve as the interim state chairman,
Akans said the suspension of the former chairman and his deputy followed the resolution of the party executive after its meeting held at the state secretariat on Wednesday.
A copy of the resolution signed by eighteen party executives obtained by our correspondent accused Sango of misappropriating the resources sent to the state for the presidential elections.
It also accused Sango and his deputy of being unable to account for the funds raised and saved by the party to assist Internally Displaced Persons.
The resolution said, “The Party Chairman Hon. Dimishi T. Sango and his Deputy Hon. Amos Gombi Goyol, are hereby suspended and stand suspended.
“The State Campaign Council is hereby dissolved with immediate effect. All party properties in whatsoever description in their possession should be returned to the State Party Secretariat within 48 hours based on the following reasons: the resources sent to the State for the Presidential elections were not accounted for by the Chairman aided by the Deputy Chairman concealed the amount sent by the Presidential Campaign Committee and created a fraudulent unseen template used as “a sharing formula” unknown to the State Party Structure and up till date no disclosure has been made by the Chairman and/or the Deputy Chairman.
ALSO READ :Plateau PDP accuses INEC REC of causing tension
“The Money raised and saved by the Party to help Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) to help relieve their pains were also not accounted for up till this moment. No mention has been made of the stated funds. It is worthy to note that the Deputy Chairman is the Chairman Committee on IDPs for the party.
“The money meant for PDP Plateau State Retreat was equally not accounted for by the Chairman and/or the Deputy Chairman.
“The arbitrary substitution of the legitimate candidate who won his primaries for Wase Federal House of Representatives by the Chairman and this Deputy without recourse to the EXCO or SEC due to some financial inducement to the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman cost PDP to lose the election in Wase Federal House of Representatives.
 

			
			Post Views: 
			140