The Committee for the defence of human rights (CDHR) Lagos State branch has counseled the Governor elect, Mr. Babajide  Sanwoolu not to abandon projects initiated by the out-going Governor Akinwunmi Ambode,faulting the manner he was denied a well deserved second term.
The CDHR Chairman Lagos State branch,Comrade Alex Omotehinse in a statement recently issued, highlighted the numerous achievements recorded by the Ambode led administration.
Comrade Alex however,commended the outgoing Governor for spreading developmental projects all across the state.
“Within the last three and half years, he has convinced lagosians that a greater Lagos is achievable through tremendous social infrastructure and people’s engagement in governance.
“Without any fear or favour and with utmost sincerity, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode has demostrated his genuine sincerity of purpose and pro – people’s policy in governance which as distinguished him as an achiever in less than 4 years between 2015 – 2019.
“The working governor has torched almost every nook and crannies in the state in term of developmental projects that are visible for any doubting Thomas to see for themselves.
He maintained that the worthy feats of Governor Ambode within 46months, if appreciated and rewarded by giving him a second term,would have transformed Lagos to a world class status.
ALSO READ: Comedian finally defeats incumbent president in Ukrainian election
“As a pro democracy and human rights organization, we were disappointed that a performing and a reference point Governor within and outside his party did  not have the opportunity to finish the good work he has started. “We believe lagosians have started missing him from the day he was denied a second term ticket by his party.
The CDHR list of Ambode’s unmatched strides are;
Fortified Security in Lagos with N6.6b worth of Equipment for Security Agencies ,Massive Road Rehabilitation, Reconstruction of Inner Roads, Rehabilitation of Lagos Badagry Expressway,Rehabilitation of Lagos Abeokuta Expressway,Payment of N11billion Backlog Arrears For Retirees,Completion of Ago Palace Way Project.
Others includes;Setting Up Of N25bn Employment Trust Fund, 1300 Teachers Employed To Revive Primary Education,N1billion For Upgrade of Schools’ Infrastructure,Injection Of 434 New BRT Buses For Ikorodu Corridor,Continuation of Blue Line Rail Project Massive Light Up Lagos Campaign (Federal Highways and Streets),36km Stretch of Street Lights from Ile-Zik to Sango Toll Gate,67 Ibeju Lekki Communities Connected to National Grid.
Prompt Response to Challenge of Water Supply,Commissioning Of DNA Forensic Centre, Handing Over Of N6.6billion Equipment for Security Agencies (First And Second Phase),Signing Of Lagos State Properties Protection Law (Anti-Land Grabbing Law), Signing Of Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps Law To Increase Security In The Communities Across The State.





			
			Post Views: 
			14