…Stop harassing our members 
Leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State has cautioned against continuous harassment and intimidation, including arrest of members of the opposition party by the Edo State Government. The PDP leaders decried that the Governor of the state, Godwin Obaseki, has focused the machinery of government in victimizing All Progressives Congress (APC) who defected to the PDP.
The State Publicity Secretary, Chris Osa Nehikhare, in a statement on Wednesday lamented: “It has come to our notice and realization that Edo State government is continuing to harass, intimidate and victimize our party members, especially, those that recently decamped from APC.”
The State Publicity Secretary narrated that Chief Osamede Adun, a foremost transporter, businessman and entrepreneur who rejoined PDP in the last eight months has been a victim of victimization, harassment and intimidation. “His businesses have been singled out for all sorts of government citation and brute implementation of unlawful orders,” he declared.
Adun protested that below are a few of the incidence that Chief Adun has been encountering in the last few months:
1. Edo State Government demolished Chief Osamede Adun’s Shopping Mall on Mission Road, and forcefully turned it to a parking lot even when the matter is pending in a competent court with Justice VOA Oviawe presiding.
ALSO READ: 3 reasons that make Nigerians wonder whether Atiku hacked INEC servers
2. Edo State Government closed down Bob Izua Borrow Pit located at Ikuenobo/Iguomo Communities, Benin City, owned by Chief Adun.
3. Edo State Government closed down Bob Izua Abattoir near Oluku, Benin City and Bob Izua Abattoir at Ikpoba Slope. These matters are currently pending at the Federal High Court No.1, Benin City, with Justice Umar presiding.
4. Edo State Government gives notice to compulsorily acquire Bob Izua Yard near his house around Oba Market Road where his buses are parked!
5. The latest in the long line of victimization and I believe vindictiveness is the order to demolish part of his park in Ring Road.
“It is clear and unfortunate that as 2020 approaches, Edo State Government  has switched on its harass and intimidate buttons as it believes it can cow Edo people into submission,” Adun declared
The PDP, therefore, called on all Edolites and Nigerians to condemn these acts and prevail on the government to be tolerant of opposition and govern the state without government intimidation, harassment, victimization and vindictiveness.

			
			Post Views: 
			84