FG bans mining activities in Zamfara



 

The Nigeria Police have taken tough measures to combat bandits in Zamfara State and other states in the northwest Nigeria. The Acting Inspector General of Police, Abubakar Mohammed Adamu, on Sunday assured residents of Zamfara State and other Nigerians that the Police have set up a joint force with the Nigerian Army to wipe the bandits off the northwest Nigeria and ensure the security of live and property.
For the effectiveness of the joint military operations, the federal government has banned mining within the troubles zone of Zamfara State, the government also ordered foreigners to vacate mining sites in the state.
Apparently, the Nigeria Police in collaboration with the Nigerian Military and other Security Services have commenced “Operation PUFF- ADDER” which is a full scale security offensive against the bandits.
The Acting Inspector General of Police stated that the operation is aimed at reclaiming every public space under the control of the bandits, arrest and bring to book all perpetrators of violence in the area and achieve a total destruction of all criminal camps and hideouts.
“In the face of intelligence report that has clearly established a strong and glaring nexus between the activities of armed bandits and illicit miners -with both mutually re-enforcing each other, the Federal Government of Nigeria has directed that mining activities in Zamfara and other affected States are hereby suspended with immediate effect.
“Consequently, any mining operator who engages in mining activities in the affected locations henceforth will have his licence revoked. All foreigners operating in the mining fields should close and leave within 48 hours
“We appeal for the cooperation of the local communities, especially the traditional and religious leaders within the community. Meanwhile, we note the use of social media to spread fake news, falsehood and deliberate misinformation. We therefore urge our citizens to exercise restraint in circulating unconfirmed information capable of doing more damage to us all. Let us not allow the social media to hijack our sense of judgment and capture our minds negatively,” the IG declared.

			
			Post Views: 
			86