The Changi Boys’ will face yet another litmus test when they welcome Lobi Stars to the magnificent Muhammadu Dikko Stadium in one of the NPFL matchday 14 fixtures, National Daily learnt.
Katsina United who suffered a narrow defeat to Kwara United 1 – 0 in Ilorin last weekend will hope to return to winning ways when they trade tackles against NPFL current champions on Sunday.
Lobi Stars who recorded another disappointing result at home in their last match against relegation threatening Niger Tornadoes 2 – 2, will go to this encounter with the hope of getting positive result.
Coach Abdullahi Biffo team has already dropped two points at home this season against the table toppers MFM FC and will do everything possible in this game to ensure that the maximum points is amassed knowing that any results other winning might see them drop to the relegation zone
The Makurdi team will also throw everything into this game in order to avoid defeat as losing to Katsina United on Sunday will further complicate their woes of survival.
Katsina United will still bank on their star players like; Tasiu Lawal, Lukman Muhammed, Destiny Ashadi, Usman Barau and Martins Usule who scored the team only goal in the first leg in Makurdi to fire them to  victory on Sunday.
Coach  Biffo told National Daily that his team target in this crunch tie is the three points.
“Yes, I know is going to be a tough game, Lobi Stars are the league champions and I am sure they will come all out to get point here just like we did in Makurdi but we are not ready to sacrifice any of our points again. He declared
Xxxxx
Simeone warns Barcelona: Atletico will fight for La Liga
Diego Simeone has warned Barcelona that Atletico Madrid will not give up the fight for the La Liga title following their 4-0 defeat of Deportivo Alaves, National Daily gathered.
Atleti closed the gap to the leaders back to 10 points with an emphatic win at Mendizorroza, after Barca had beaten Espanyol 2-0 earlier on Saturday.
And Simeone insists they still believe in their title chances, with the top-two meeting at Camp Nou next Saturday.
“What was most pleasing was they understood where we could hurt the opposition the most,” he said after the win at Alaves. “We aim to harm the opposition and not take long to create dangerous passes. We had to play quickly.
“In principle, the players needed a game like that, at a stadium where the opponents compete well. The conviction and the way we won makes us very happy.
“We can’t lose sight of the fact that, at any point in La Liga, competing is in our nature. And we want to compete for La Liga until our last breath.”
Mehn this will only the Game on April 7th more mouth watering. Atletico Madrid are no push overs.

			
			Post Views: 
			87