Former Governor of Akwa Ibom State Goodswill Akpabio, says he has no regrets joining the All Progressives Congress, and also denied speculation that he was considering returning to his former party, the Peoples’ Democratic Party.
In a statement released by his Special Assistant on Media, Anietie Ekong, the former senate minority leader said he had no regret whatsoever for the decision he took as a nationalist to join the APC.
According to him, those spreading the falsehood are malicious and only out to drag his name into disrepute. “We wish to state without fear of contradiction that this is the concoction by whoever authored it. The assertion is factually inaccurate, the statement reads in part.
“Chief Godswill Akpabio never served as a Commissioner for eight years so he could never have so claimed nor could he have described his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) as ‘evil party.’
“Distinguished Senator Akpabio has no regret whatsoever for the decision he took as a nationalist to join the All Progressives Congress and lend his support to President Muhammadu Buhari, whom he sees as an upright leader with the interest of the generality of the Nigerian people, especially the masses at heart.
ALSO SEE: Post-2019: APC celebrates Akpabio’s defeat in Akwa Ibom
“Given similar circumstances and situations, Senator Akpabio would still take the same decision over and over again. He has no apology for his resolve.
“As the National Coordinator of the Presidential Support Committee and the South-South Director of the Presidential Campaign Council during the last general elections, Senator Akpabio is proud to have worked with other Progressives for the re-election of President Buhari. He remains a committed member of the APC and will join hands and work with the President in any way to move the country forward.
“There is no gainsaying that Senator Akpabio was rigged out of the race for re-election as Senator to represent the good people of Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial District. He’s presently at the Election Petition Tribunal to reclaim his stolen mandate and has the support of his party, the APC. He has implicit confidence in the judiciary to restore his mandate.
The statement said the quote attributed to Senator Akpabio is the handiwork of political jobbers and mischief–makers, who in recent times have elevated political propaganda to high art.

			
			Post Views: 
			71