December 30, 2018 - Manchester, United Kingdom - Manchester United''s Paul Pogba celebrates after scoring his teams first goal during the Premier League match at Old Trafford, Manchester. Picture date: 30th December 2018. Picture credit should read: Matt McNulty/Sportimage Photo via Newscom
        
 


The (negative) results of Manchester United, now seem completely independent of what will be the future of Paul Pogba. The Frenchman is at a goodbye pace. Already before the derby lost 2-0 at home against Manchester City rumors had leaked out that Pogba asked to be officially sold to the company. In this, it must be said, United is an infallible clockwork mechanism: it was back to being impenetrable in the months in which the substitute of José Mourinho, Gunnar Solskjaer, made the team fly, now the leaks are restarted. The two possible destinations are Juventus and Real Madrid, with the latter particularly active in sending messages to the player, leaving possible strategies to meet Manchester United’s requests leaked.
ALSO READ: You won’t believe what Madrid fans say about Pogba
VALUES – In the game of capital gains, which in football, you know, count for a lot, the merengues seem to have what it takes to be able to take the most important step. On the table is Gareth Bale, who could become an important counterpart. The Welsh would accept Manchester United and Pogba could do the reverse, with the only obstacle that in both cases should be represented only by the engagement of the two. Bale at Real Madrid earns 16 million net per season, he goes for 30 years and physically he has had some problems lately. […]
GREAT REPORT – The Juve hypothesis, however, remains equally open. The club has never stopped following the French champion and the idea of an important investment to do this summer is central in the market plan. At Juventus, the admirers are not lacking: first of all, of course, Max Allegri, who also with the Octopus was able to build a feeling that was also human and personal during the common experience of Juventus.

			
			Post Views: 
			69