The roads of Hazard and Real Madrid are destined to meet, and every time there are less curves to reach the meeting point. Three of the four parties (the player, the white club and Zidane) fully agree on the operation. Still remains to convince the fourth involved, Chelsea, although the agreement is getting closer. The talks between the two clubs have intensified. The scenario is like this. The blue give the Belgian lost, but do not want to do it at any price. They have set their output at 100 million pounds (116 million euros). Madrid, meanwhile, does not intend to reach that figure, valued the player at 80 or 90 million euros because they terminate contract in 2020. In the white club are optimistic in reaching a point in common between both proposals. ..
That tug of war is being similar to what happened with Courtois a year ago. Chelsea knew for months before the summer market opened that the goalkeeper’s future was in Madrid, but it lengthened the uncertainty until they found a substitute (Kepa). In this case they already have their spare (Pulisic) so the negotiation will not be extended as much as it happened with the goal.
Aware that sooner or later both clubs will be forced to understand each other, Sarri is pessimistic in assessing the continuity of Hazard. “If Hazard wants to have another experience it’s very difficult to keep him here, 100 million pounds, it seems too cheap, in this market it’s very cheap …” In addition, he valued what his loss would mean: “It is impossible to find another like Hazard, in the whole world you can only find two players like that, I hope he stays with us, otherwise we will have to try something different”. Higuain, in declarations to ESPN, also gives him for lost: “When a player has a desire it’s difficult to make him change.” He did not ask me (for Madrid) but if it’s what makes him happy, I wish him the best. stay…”. Not even the FIFA penalty for illegally registering minors is an obstacle: Chelsea manages a market plan A (if the TAS grants the precautionary and can sign in summer) and a plan B (if you can not sign) and in both contemplate the departure of the Belgian. But his ‘obligation’ is to get as much money as possible out of his best player. “In the end, Chelsea can not prevent a player from staying against their will, if he wants to leave, he will leave,” assure Aces sources close to the Belgian player.
Hazard has been on Madrid’s radar for months, but with the arrival of Zidane the decisive step took place. The Frenchman, who will have full decision-making capacity in the preparation of the staff of the next course, conveyed to Florentino and José Ángel Sánchez his approval for the operation. He gave the final ‘yes’ to the incorporation of a footballer who has always been to his liking. This has been decisive for the acceleration of negotiations.

			
			Post Views: 
			86