The Catholic Bishop of Yola Diocese, Reverend Stephen Mamza, on Sunday says Nigerians are dilemma over President Muhammadu Buhari handling of insecurity issues in the country.

He stated this during the Easter celebration, adding that indiscriminate killings of Nigerians appears to have heightened since President Buhari came to power in 2015.

“We are really in a dilemma. We (Nigerians) are feeling that we don’t have protection. From all indications, there’s nothing being done. There have been calls from all over the country. Look at what is happening in Zamfara State; look at what is happening in Benue periodically, in Nasarawa State and now in Adamawa (Southern Adamawa).
ALSO READ: NAF goes on fact finding mission to Zamfara
He decried recent attacks on Adamawa, Benue, Zamfara, Nasarawa states and Southern Kaduna, which led to the killing of many citizens.

“If there is a government in place then the government should listen to the people and address the security challenges. We have mass burials from time to time and there’s no sign the government cares about what is happening.

“It is the constitutional duty of the government to provide security for its citizens but that is if such government really cares. Why are we living in a country where it seems there’s no government in place?” he lamented.

Mamza said he always wondered about the legacy Buhari will leave behind should he continue to refuse pleas by Nigerians to overhaul the security architecture which has failed to address the security situation in the country.

“Since the history of this country, apart from the civil war we have never had the kind of killings under a President like we have in the last four years. So, it is clear, the killings are too many. And if the strategies they have in place do not work why he (Buhari) can’t change and overhaul the entire security architecture? People have been asking him to overhaul his security chiefs but he doesn’t listen. He doesn’t care,” he added.

			
			Post Views: 
			101