The Chief of Army Staff, (COAS) Lt Gen Tukur Buratai on Tuesday called on families of soldiers of the Nigerian Army to imbibe the culture of cleanliness and maintenance in order to sustain a healthy environment in the barracks.

The COAS, who was represented by the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 81 Division, Maj Gen Musa Yusuf, while inaugurating six blocks of flats for Corporals below at Myhoung barracks at the 68 Reference Hospital, Yaba, and an office complex at 81 Division Garrison in Dodan barracks, Obalende.

He cautioned families of soldiers not to bring in materials into their homes especially electrical fittings not originally designed for the building that could cause fire disaster.

Gen Yusuf admonished them to continually pray for the COAS, their husbands especially those serving in the North East. He implored them to shun trouble and any misdemeanour that would bring the image of the force to disrepute.

Pointing out that soldiering is not like ‘butter and bread”, observed that due to work demands, “you sometimes find yourself at the theatre of war noting that when it happens, you have no choice than to defend the intregrity of the country.

Also, while commissioning the 81 Division Garrison office Complex, Maj Gen Yusuf reemphasized the need to maintain the facilities noting that the only way to encourage the COAS was to ensure that the resources deployed for the renovation was not wasted.

Speaking earlier, the Acting Corp Commander, Nigerian Army Medical Corps, Col Samuel Adama said the renovation would not only boost the morale of soldiers in Myhoung barracks but all personnel of the Nigerian Army particularly those in the North East knowing that their families are being cared for back home.

Given the genealogy of barracks, Col Adama pointed out that Myhoung barracks was ceded to the Nigerian Army by the Nigerian Railway Corporation and CFAO in 1968 when the NA was sourcing for a location to site a hospital to cater for soldiers wounded in the civil war.

Expressing happiness and joy, one of the wives of the beneficiaries, Mrs Bilikisu Buhari noted that the renovation has brought huge relief to her and family considering the unimaginable level of delapidation of the building.”I am as happy as the day I got married for the privilege of entering a brand, newly renovated building considering what we went through prior to the reconstruction,” she explained.

On his part, the Garrison Commander, 81 Division, Nigerian Army, Brig Gen Caleb Dalhatu noted that the desire of the COAS to provide a conducive and befitting working environment for personnel of the NA necessitated the remodeling of the office complex.

He reiterated that the renovated office would enhence productivity of personnel but assured the COAS that they would take the maintenance of the complex as a priority.

			
			Post Views: 
			81