At least twenty Akwa United players will feature along side three-time UEFA Champions League winner Carles Puyol and Super Eagles legend Austin Jay Jay Okocha in the UEFA Champions League trophy tour match tagged “Unmissable match, National Daily gathered.
The novelty match which is billed for Tuesday 16th April, at the iconic Nest of Champions will be played under floodlights by 5pm and fans will watch the Unmissable match free of charge.
Addressing sports journalists in Uyo, the Portfolio Manager, National Premium Brands, Nigeria Breweries PLC,  Sarah Agah said the unmissable match will feature Team Chairman (HEINEKEN) to be captained by former Spain and FC Barcelona Captain Carles Puyol and Team Shine Bobo (STAR) to be led by former Super Eagles captain Austin Jay Jay Okocha.
According to Agha the UEFA Champions League Trophy Tour is organised to give football fans in Nigerian an unforgettable and extraordinary experiences.
“As part of our unified love for the beautiful game and our commitment to treating fans to the most remarkable, unmissable moments of football, we are proud to give football lovers the chance to see the UEFA Champions League trophy live in Nigeria. For three days, we will tour the nation and engage with football fans in Uyo and Lagos.
“Over the years,Heineken has taken great pride in providing consumers with unique and unforgettable experiences. We believe that our consumers deserve to be treated to moments that will live with them forever.  The unmissable match was borne of this idea to present fans with the most remarkable football match Nigerians have ever seen”.
In his remark, the Senior Special Assistant to Governor Udom Emmanuel on Sports and Chairman of Akwa United Football Club Elder Paul Bassey reeled out the benefits of the UEFA Champions League trophy tour to the state and Akwa United players.
“I am excited that this historic event is coming to our dear state – Uyo to be precise. UEAF champions league is one competition that is watched everywhere around the globe and for us to have the rare privilege of hosting the trophy tour here in Uyo is a great opportunity to put our state yet again on the global map.
“The administration of His Excellency Deacon Udom Emmanuel has taken sports to the highest  level and I am glad to inform us that the state government is ready to host this memorable event.
“This historic event will offer twenty Akwa United players the opportunity to play along side legends of the beautiful game like Former Spain and FC Barcelona Captain Carles Puyol and former Super Eagles captain Austin Jay Jay Okocha. We believe that this experience will spur the players to dream big in their careers while providing the good people of Akwa Ibom the opportunity of seeing the UEFA Champions League trophy live here in Uyo”.
The UEFA Champions League trophy tour of Nigeria is sponsored by one of the world’s most foremost Beer – Heineken, a long time sponsor of the UEFA Champions League.

			
			Post Views: 
			263