The Supreme Court has fixed April 10 to hear an appeal in the APC leadership struggle in Kwara State.
The court fixed the date on Monday because hearing notices were not served on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and the caretaker chairman of the party in the state, Bashiru Bolarinwa.
The court is billed to determine the appeal filed by the factional chairman of the party in the state, Ishola Fulani.
Mr Fulani, through his counsel, Kehinde Eleja (SAN), had approached the court to challenge the powers of the National chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomole.
He contended that Mr Oshiomole had arbitrarily dissolve the state executive committee of the party when their four year tenure had not expired.
Mr Fulani had filed the appeal on behalf of the other state executive members of the party.
They want the court to restrain Mr Oshiomole from further recognition and dealing with Bolarinwa’s group as the officer of the party in the state.
The appellant also prays the court for another order of court stopping the INEC from accepting nominations of candidates for the 2019 general elections, except nomination by his group.
NAN reports that a High court in Ilorin had in February, ruled in favour of the appellant but the judgment was overturned by the court of Appeal, Ilorin division.
The judgment was overturned on the grounds that the case of the Fulani group had become an academic exercise prompting the movement to the Supreme Court.
At the resume hearing today, Eleja drew the attention of the court to the fact that the case must be determined before April 12.
He said this was because it was a pre-election matter whose duration is 60 days in the court which shall expire on April 12.
However, Akin Olujinmi, SAN, counsel to Mr Oshiomole, attempted to convince the court that the matter was not a pre-election case.
Mr Olujimi said the matter rather, was a mere dissolution of the state exco.
Justice Vivour who presided over the panel, turned down the arguments of Mr Olujinmi because APC, in its processes filed from the High court, had admitted that it was a pre-election matter.
 

			
			Post Views: 
			111