March 12, 2019 - Manchester, Reino Unido - MANCHESTER, MA - 12.03.2019: MANCHESTER Manchester X SCHALKE 04 - Pep Guardiola during the match between Manchester City and Schalke 04 held at Etihad Stadium in Manchester, Ma. The match is the second qualifying round of the 2018/19 UEFA Champions League Round of 16
        
 


Pep Guardiola will face the media this afternoon to preview Manchester City’s game against Manchester United at Old Trafford on Wednesday night.
 City require four wins from their remaining four Premier League games to retain the league title for the first time after exacting revenge on Tottenham for their Champions League quarter-final defeat with a 1-0 victory at the Etihad on Saturday.
 Phil Foden’s fifth-minute header went unanswered as City recorded their 25th home win of the season in all competitions as the Blues hunt for an unprecedented treble of domestic trophies.
 “He’s special,” Guardiola said of Foden. “I trust him a lot, from the first time I saw him. When I first landed here Txiki Begiristain [City’s sporting director] told me: ‘Meet one player – he is 15, 16 years old. You have to know him.’
Guardiola isn’t getting carried away by United’s poor form.
 I expect the best United tomorrow, I am sure. They are proud. Prepare the game as always, their strong points, their weak points and try to win the game.
 Is it fair people are questioning the appointment of the United manager?
 I am close to Solskjaer, I understand his position perfectly. We are alone, we feel alone, I understand his position because it happens to all the managers around the world. It is the reality, we have to accept it. If not, stay at home. I understand him perfectly and i am with him. I support him.
ALSO READ: Balotelli requests EA Sports add his now infamous Marseille selfie celebration to FIFA
 Unfortunately he was injured and then another one and another one. He had two or three muscular problems as a consequence of his knee. With the competitions in England you don’t have time to make a preparations, the best way is to make a pre-season. We have to pay more attention to the little details when we go forward. Now we have to see if he can play one or two more games before the end of the season and have a good pre-season. He has a lovely family so his life is well-organised. we’re going to speak with him, the doctors, the physios to make sure he is safe and fit.
 Manchester is blue
 Titles are more important than the city rivalry
 The question of dominance is about winning Premier league titles. It’s ok but it’s not the most important thing. It’s true that we’ve done better than them over the last three years but it is about winning titles, not beating United.
 Everton 4-0 United
 Has United’s mauling on Sunday made Guardiola more worried for tomorrow?
 A little bit, yeah but even a good result, the confidence will be higher. It is a derby and all the times we play against United, the derbies are always special games and the players do their best for the fans the club. I saw the game, I imagine what will happen against us. The game against Everton is over.
 

			
			Post Views: 
			24