As Lagos CP promises reforms







 

Amnesty International has called on the government to investigate the killing of one Kolade Johnson by men of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) during a raid in Onipetesi area of Lagos.

Kolade Johnson, a resident of Onipetesi in the Mangoro area of Lagos state, was shot at the weekend allegedly by operatives of FSARS. His death has sparked yet another outrage against SARS.

In a statement on Monday signed by the Director of Amnesty International Nigeria, Osai Ojigho, Kolade Johnson is the latest victim of the SARS police unit which has become notorious for extrajudicial killings, torture and extortion.

“This appears to be an unlawful killing which must be impartially and thoroughly investigated, with any officers suspected of criminal responsibility for wrongdoing brought to justice in fair trial before an ordinary civilian court. It is shameful that more than two years since Amnesty International highlighted crimes under international law and human rights violations by SARS, these shocking incidents continue unabated.


“Nigerians will no longer accept the brutality being unleashed against them by SARS on an almost daily basis,” Ojigho said.

“SARS is a police unit created to protect the people. Instead it has become a danger to society, torturing its victims with complete impunity while fomenting a toxic climate of fear and corruption.”

Amnesty International’s investigations into the activities of SARS across Nigeria since 2016 have exposed the callous workings of a police squad operating outside of the law.

Amnesty International, human rights group, says the reforms Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo initiated during the heat of the campaign against the special anti-robbery squad (SARS), are not working.

Recall that in August when President Muhammadu Buhari went on vacation abroad, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who acted on his behalf, had ordered the reorganization of SARS.

Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police Lagos State, CP Zubairu Muazu mni has called for calm, assuring that justice will prevail in the case as the officer responsible for the killing has been arrested.

In a statement released signed Command’s PPPRO, DSP Bala Elkana, Muazu said members of the team suspected to be involved in the shooting have since been arrested and are currently in Police custody undergoing interrogation.

“They will be subjected to internal disciplinary procedures, and may be prosecuted in conventional Court if implicated by ongoing investigation.”

The CP has promised to initiate far reaching reforms to help in repositioning the Anti Cultism Squad for effective service delivery, particularly in areas of respect for Human Rights and proficiency in the use of firearms.

He said members of the Public who have complaints on the activities of Anti Cultism Squad or any of our Police teams should call the following numbers 08063299264, 08065154338 and 08060357795,






			
			Post Views: 
			119