The Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) has suspended a Kebbi state based practicing Medical Doctor, Jamilu Muhammad, for gross negligence, incompetence and infamous behaviour.

Delivering Judgement Tuesday the Chairman, Abba Hassan said after due consideration of the facts of the case, the plea of guilty, the plea for leniency, the tribunal ordered the suspension of Dr. Jamilu Muhammad from engaging in practice as medical practitioner for a period of six months.

Dr. Muhammad who works with the Martha Bamaiyi General Hospital, Zuru, Kebbi state was accused of mismanaging a case of a pregnant patient, Malama Fatima Danjuma.

According to the charge sheet No MDODT/4/2018, Muhammad had erroneously diagnosed that the baby in the womb was dead and the need to carry out a surgery to evacuate the dead baby only to realize that the baby was alive after amputating the baby’s upper limb.

The Kebbi doctor who is standing trial at the Medical and Dental Practitioners’ Disciplinary Tribunal pleaded guilty to the one count charge when it was read to him on Monday.

The charge was based on the affidavit of Mr Elisha Nona Ajoyi dated and filed on the 8′” day of May 2017, alleging unethical behaviour against the Respondent Medical Practitioner.

The petitioner’s affidavit was sent to the Respondent for his response. The Respondent accordingly responded in the form of counter affidavit dated and filed on 20’h of June, 2017. The Respondent attached four onnexures to his counter affidavit as requested by the panel.

In accordance with the relevant provisions of the Medical and Dental Practitioners’ Act, the matter was investigated at the 22nd session of the Panel on 24-28 September 2018.

After a painstaking deliberation on the affidavits and facts and documents presented before the investigation panel, the panel reached the conclusion that a prima focie case had been established against the respondent.

The matter was then referred to the Tribunal, while an interim order suspending the respondent, Dr Jamiiu Muhammad from medical practice was made against him pending the determination of the case by this Tribunal.


Doctor Muhammad is one of the fourteen doctors arraigned on Monday for trial by the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria for various.

The MDCN is the regulatory body of all medical and alternative medicine practitioners in the country, with mandate to discipline any erring practitioners whose actions or in-actions fall short of the medical professional ethics.






			
			Post Views: 
			40