PDP kicks,claiming clear lead

By Olanrewaju Adesanya
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Lagos State on Wednesday in conformity with court’s directive, declared Feb. 23 Ajeromi-Ifelodun Federal Constituency election inconclusive, and slated the supplementary poll for April 27th.
Professor Olusoji Ilori, the INEC Returning Officer for Ajeromi Ifelodun federal constituency declared the election incconclusive at a stakeholders meeting organised by INEC at the commission’s office located in Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Government Secretariat.
According to Ilori, the results of the election could not be declared after the polls due to the violence that marred the process.
Ilori, an academic from the University of Lagos, who reeled out the scores of each political party said that the incumbent,Barrister(Hon) Rita Orji, candidate of PDP polled 31, 982 votes while the runner up, the former Deputy Speaker Lagos State Assembly Hon.Kolawole Taiwo of the APC scored 28, 758 votes.
Selected Parties scores:
A- 582,AAC- 194,ACPN- 63
AD- 150,ADC-88,ADP- 139,APC- 28758,APDA- 104
APGA-66,PPC- 88,PDP- 31982,PPN- 181,GPN- 29
NPC- 5.
The returning officer said that the total number of registered voters for the constituency was 379, 676, valid votes, 63, 049, rejected votes, 2855, while the total votes cast was 65, 904.
He said that the difference between PDP and APC was 3224.
Ilori said that the supplementary election became necessary following the margin of victory between the leading candidate of PDP and the runner up from APC.
The returning officer said that the total registered voters for the affected 71 polling units across eight wards in the constituency, where cancellation occurred remained 43, 660.
Announcing the date of the supplementary poll, Mr Alfred Akpojotor, the INEC Electoral Officer for the council said that the supplementary poll would hold on April 27 in the affected areas.
According to Akpojotor, the affected areas include, Awodi Ora, Wilma,Mosafejo Olodi Apapa, Ojo Road, Mosafejo, Temidire II,and Amukoko/Alaba.
“I have been directed by my Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) to announce that the commission has fixed Saturday April 27 for the supplementary election in all those affected polling units,” he said.
He said that the results of the supplementary elections would be added to the already collated results for the winner to emerge.
Also speaking,Hon.Fatai Ajidagba, an APC chieftain and the Executive Chairman, Ifelodun Local Council Development Area told newsmen that APC would prepare adequately for the supplementary poll and that the party would emerge victorious.
Mr Kalejaiye also an APC chieftain in Ajeromi hinted the supplementary election is a limited one which affects few units, so security will tightened and violence will be nibbed at its bud.
In his reaction, Mr Charles Ejimadu, the Director General of the Hon. Rita Orji’s Campaign Organisation described the process as “unfortunate” saying that the results were altered.
“INEC just cancelled a genuinely won election as we have results of 67 out of the 71 polling units in contention.
“We won in the general election if they have added the results from 67 units a rerun will not arise because we have a clear valid win from our own collation that we have.
‘When the time comes, we will bring out the fact for the whole world to know that INEC, as it is now, has no credibility,” Ejimadu said.
Also Mr Kazeem Ebozogie the Secretary of the Hon.Rita campaign body,raised a poser on why INEC still chose to use same result for Presidential and Senatorial election while leaving out the Reps.
He also cited the fact that PDP is averse to having a rerun alleging that it is an attempt to subvert the people’s will.
An INEC SPO in charge of ten units in Ajeromi federal constituency,unit 041-050 who spoke with newsmen Mr Nosike Chukwuebuka, claimed that his Electoral Officer demanded that he should flush away results saying,’what has been writing has been written’.
He also alleged an unknown number called him saying he was told he cancelled the election in the said area.
“I have the results I was said to have cancelled and can afford it at the instance of the court.

			
			Post Views: 
			54