The plot of SWANI National President, Mr Honour Sirawoo to unseat the Niyi Alebuosu led executives of the Oyo state chapter of the Sports Writers Association has failed again, as the Oyo state Police Command has thrown out the petition filed against the Oyo SWAN leadership under Mr Alebiosu, National Daily gathered.
Mr Sirawoo through his stooges in the Oyo state chapter of the Nigeria Union of Journalists filed a petition against the Niyi Alebiosu led Exco at the Criminal Investigation Department of the State Police Command to stop Mr Alebiosu and other SWAN executives from functioning as SWAN leaders in the state.
The petitioners also called for the arrest of Alebiosu and  other executives for failing to hand over to the illegal executive council set up on the instructions of Mr Sirawoo. The illegal executive council set up in February 2019 was not recognized by most members of sports fraternity in Oyo state.
On Tuesday, after being summoned by the state Police Command to answer the charges levelled against them in the petition, Mr Niyi Alebiosu, the state SWAN Chairman Mr Akeem Abass and the Secretary  Mr Adewale Tijani went to the state CID building in Ibadan.
There they met Mr petitioners led by the state NUJ Chairman, Comrade Adewumi Faniran.
The two groups were taken to the office of the Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) who adjudicated over the matter.
After listening to statements from representatives of the two feuding sides which included the state NUJ Chairman, his Secretary Mr Bola Ogunlayi, the SWAN Chairman and his Secretary, the ACP ruled that since the case is a civil matter not a criminal one, he can’t enforce any action on the two parties.
The ACP repeatedly advised the two feuding parties to settle the rift peacefully and eschew violence.
He told the NUJ Chairman that his (Faniran) faction cannot forcefully take SWAN property from Niyi Alebiosu leadership since such powers were not enshrined in NUJ or SWAN constitutions.
He then warned the two parties against taking laws into their own hands as this is the only thing that can attract police action.
While urging the two feuding group to eschew violence, the ACP advised the two parties to seek redress in court if they are not satisfied with the status quo.
He particularly told the NUJ Chairman that the police cannot take any action against Niyi Alebiosu led Excos unless he (Faniran) presented them (police) a certified court order mandating them to do so.
The NUJ Chairman was visibly disappointed at this verdict and left in annoyance because his ploy to have the Niyi Alebiosu and his executives arrested or prosecuted failed.
Mr Sirawoo’s stooges led by the NUJ Chairman also failed in their attempts to prevent Alebiosu led Excos from conducting another election that will negate the illegal election they conducted last month, as the ACP declined to give such order.
An Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) who had earlier tried unsuccessfully  to broker peace before the case was transferred to the ACP, witnessed Tuesday’s proceedings.
He told the petitioners and the State SWAN leadership before they left the CID building, that the verdict delivered by his boss is final.
Tuesday’s botched arrest plot was the latest in series of failed attempts by Mr Sirawoo to have the Oyo state SWAN leadership under Mr Niyi Alebiosu dissolved.
Since October when Mr Sirawoo announced the dissolution of the state SWAN leadership and appointed a Caretaker Committee to replace it (an action that violates SWAN statutes which vest the power to remove SWAN State Excos in Full Council and the State Congress) the state SWAN leadership under Mr Niyi Alebiosu has continued to function unhindered and enjoy the support of 95% of sports writers as well as most members of the sports fraternity in the state.
The Caretaker Committee set up by Mr Sirawoo and the rival SWAN Excos it midwifed were never recognized by sports writers and sports administrators, not only in Oyo state but also in the whole South West.

			
			Post Views: 
			86