With few weeks to the inauguration of President Muhammadu Buhari for his second term, top politicians, including outgoing governors and 15 ministers are already jostling for cabinet seats.
National Daily gathered that lobbyists, including governors and ministers, have been mounting pressure on influential citizens to put in a word for them.
A source, who spoke in confidence, said: “Some of those seeking to be ministers include a former Military Administrator, three of the outgoing governors and no fewer than 15 of the over 30 ministers who will complete their tenure on May 22.
“As for the three outgoing governors, two may represent their geopolitical zones, depending on the outcome of consultations between the President and leaders from their zones.”
Concerning the ex-MILAD, another source said: “Some forces within the first family are lobbying that the ex-Military Administrator should be made the Chief of Staff but the President seems to have confidence in the present holder, Mallam Abba Kyari.
When the lobbying was stuck, they made a case for the Secretary to the Government of the Federation for the former MILAD. Now, the game has changed to a desire for a ministerial appointment.
“The only thing which can make the Office of the Chief of Staff to be vacant is if Kyari is given a choice ministerial appointment.
There were indications that the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) might be zoned to the North-Central in favour of a Christian candidate.
ALSO READ: Osun Govt. goes tough on indiscriminate dumping of refuse
But some party leaders have been making a strong case for the Southeast to produce the SGF despite the zone’s rejection of Buhari at the poll.
A government source said: “Definitely, the SGF post will shift from the Northeast to another zone because the Northeast has enjoyed the slot in the last four years, with Engr. Babachir Lawal and Boss Mustapha occupying the office.
“The North central looks more favoured with a Christian candidate for the slot.”
Some All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders prefer that the Southeast should produce the SGF, despite the zone’s hostility to Buhari during the just-concluded general elections, the source added.
A source in the Presidency said: “The need for inclusiveness in governance has led to the suggestion that we should have 42 ministers.”
Section 147(1-3) directs the President to appoint at least 36 ministers.
The section reads: “There shall be such offices of Ministers of the Government of the Federation as may be established by the President.
“Any appointment to the office of Minister of the Government of the Federation shall, if the nomination of any person to such office is confirmed by the Senate, be made by the President.

			
			Post Views: 
			45