It was another bloody weekend when gunmen attacked Bagana and Patani communities in Kogi State, killing four persons in the attack.
The Police Public Relations Officer in Kogi State, Williams Ayah, was said to have confirmed the onslaught and the casualty figure on Sunday.
Both communities located in Omala Local Government Area were under attack by the gunmen on Saturday night.
The gunmen set many houses in the communities ablaze while several property worth millions of naira were destroyed.
Ayah narrated that those killed included a policeman and three civilians, noting that the attackers were suspected militia.
The PPRO observed that security operatives have since been deployed to the area to bring the situation under control.
He said that the State Police Command had commenced an investigation into the circumstances of the attack.
The Kogi State Government condemned the incident, notifying residents of the communities that government has swung into action.
The Chief Press Secretary to Governor Yahaya Bello, Onogwu Muhammed, in a statement indicated that the governor cancelled his trip with President Muhammadu Buhari to Jordan because of the attack and killings by the gunmen.
The CPS said that the governor convened a State Security Council meeting which held behind closed doors after the incident.
The governor, therefore, directed all security agencies in the state to take full control of the situation with a view of nipping the unfortunate incident in the bud.
The statement further indicated that the Nigerian Army swiftly deployed troops in the affected areas while the police provided additional reinforcement.
As part of efforts to find a lasting solution to the crisis in Omala Local Government Area, Governor Bello mapped out a plan for a permanent military outpost in Bagana.
He explained that the decision was aimed at preventing the invasion of criminal elements who cause trouble in the state.
The governor condoled with the families of the victims and urged the people in the affected areas to remain calm.

			
			Post Views: 
			42