By Olanrewaju Adesanya
Lagos State House of Assembly member, Hon. Rasheed Makinde, Ifako Ijaiye Constituency 02, presents a sienna car and 2019 Hajj slot to deserving constituents, who took active part in his reelection campaign.
While speaking, at the occasion organized by Makinde Formidable Alliance, Makinde noted that services rendered in whatever guise is never ignored by him.
The lawmaker informed the gathering that in all honesty he will always be appreciative of all contributions made towards his electoral progress.
Noting that this very day the Christian faith celebrate Jesus Christ triumphant entry into Jerusalem is topical for him to show some benevolence as people’s input count much to him.
Makinde maintained that his gesture toward the few among his constituents was to let them know that whatever contributions made towards improving his political fortune and adding to his quest to take Ifako Ijaiye Constituency 02 to an enviable height will never go in vain.
“I will continue to show my connection with my people as they form the base of my altitude politically, nothing will stop me from identifying and appreciating them.
“I decided to always to always put them first in my priority list,so this is just the beginning of better days to come”.
One of recipients of Hon.Makinde’s benevolence,who doubles as his Campaign Director General, Honourable Olugbenga Falegan while chatting with newsmen expressed his surprise and elation over the presentation of a brand new Sienna car for just concluding his duty during electoral process.
“I never thought of this at all, since the time I left office as the Deputy Leader of Ojokoro Council legislative arm since 2007.
“I came with my legs today but I am going back home with a car,I never saw this coming at all, in fact when I informed my wife at she was filled with wild jubilation.
“This means so much to me and it affirms that my political efforts are not in vain,to me I have not yet started but Hon. Makinde deemed it fit to reward me with the car,it is a call to do more I believe.
“To others out there who are already losing steam politically due to uncomplimentary comment, I charge them never to feel bored,but forge ahead as this single act by Hon.Makinde blaise the trail for greater opportunities for others who are sold out to engendering democratic tenets”.He said.
An elated Mr. AbdulKaabir Abiodun Adeyanju who got the already processed hajj form, International passport and other documents afforded by the lawmaker said he was overwhelmed by his gesture towards him.
The executive chairman Ojokoro LCDA Hon. Hammed Tijani made the official presentation of the hajj slot to the beneficiary
The Ijaiye Ojokoro LCDA boss harps more on the spiritual upliftment the Hajj slots affords the beneficiary, citing it as quite commendable.
“Going to Hajj is to redefine the beneficiary and this is a welcome development”.
Hon.Waleeh Ipaye who lauded the lawmaker for the unprecedented feat expressed appreciation for his decision to raised the bar of offering quality representation.
“I am proud to have Makinde as our representative in the assembly. Makinde is a distinguish member”.
Hon. Benjamin Olabinjo the Special Adviser to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode on Civic Engagement who was ably represented noted that APC remains a vibrant party.
“Our party is the most vibrant party in Nigerian and we will continue to ensure we succeed”.
Hon. James Owolabi the newly elected member of the House of Representatives,representing Ifako Ijaiye federal constituency took a cue from Makinde’s good gestures rededicating himself for service at the green chamber.
“I will continue to appreciate all members of our party for their support and all the staff and management of Ojokoro LCDA, they did beyond expectation, by God’s grace I will not disappoint you all”.

			
			Post Views: 
			101