The Kaduna State Police Command on Sunday said it killed three armed bandits among those that attacked Kakanji village in Birnin Gawri Local Government Area on Saturday night.
The Command Public Relations Officer, Yakubu Sabo, who confirmed the incident, however, said two police officers died in the attack.
Mr Sabo said: “We received a distress call through DPO Randagi on April 6 at about 1900hrs that Armed men in large number entered Kakangi village of Birnin Gwari LGA, a neighbouring community to Niger state, shooting sporadically attacking the villagers.
“The combine teams of Police Mobile Force personnel, conventional Police and Vigilante were quickly mobilized to the village, engaged the bandits in a fierce gun duel and successfully repelled the attack.
” Our gallant men gunned down three of the bandits and several others escaped into the bush with bullet wounds.
“However, two of our men paid the supreme sacrifice during the intense gun duel with the bandits.”
He said the officers killed in the attack were an inspector, Aliyu Mohammed, and a sergeant, Rabiu Abubakar, both of whom were attached to Randagi Division.
He another sergeant, Ibrahim Nasir, along with six civilians were injured and are now receiving treatment at the General Hospital Birnin Gwari.
Mr Sabo said the attackers also torched some houses in the village, adding that “the Command has mobilized more reinforcement to the area with a view to apprehend the perpetrators of this attack and bring them to justice.”
According to him, the Commissioner of Police, Ahmad Abdurrahman, has condemned the attack and assured members of the public that the police would fish out the culprits.
He appealed to the people of the state to support the police with prompt and relevant information that could help in getting rid of the bandits.
“The CP prayed for the repose of the souls of the gallant officers who lost their lives in the operation and quick recovery of the injured persons,” he added

			
			Post Views: 
			49