The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State has not known peace since the conclusion of the 2019 general elections. The State Party has continued to boil over leadership tussle.
A PDP member who belonged to the dismantled Ali Modu Sherriff faction in the past, Otunba Segun Adewale a.k.a Aeroland, had set the party on fire by claiming the state chairman of the PDP in Lagos, a position he assumed during the controversial Sherriff era.
The raging skirmishes have attracted the intervention of the south west PDP leadership.
Accordingly, PDP National Vice Chairman, Dr. Eddy Olafeso,  leading the South West PDP, at the weekend, petitioned the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, to restrain Otunba Segun Adewale a.k.a Aeroland, who is claiming PDP State Chairman, from gaining access to the PDP State Secretariat “or any other party facility,” located at 56A, Adekunle Fajuyi Way, Ikeja.
The PDP National Vice Chairman, in a petition he personally signed, appealed to the State Director of the Directorate of Security Service (DSS) to also intervene in order to maintain peace and order.
Olafeso protested Adewale is an impostor. He stated that Aeroland violently overthrew the PDP State Chairman in Lagos, Dr. Adegbola Dominic, to make claims of being the authentic chairman of Lagos PDP.
Olafeso also protested that Otunba Adewale is not a PDP member but a member of the Action Democratic Party (ADP). The PDP Deputy National Chairman narrated in the petition that Adewale was ADP governorship candidate in the 2018 governorship election in Ekiti State and was listed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as no 5 on the list of contestants.
ALSO READ: Kogi APC: Yahaya states reasons for his decision
Olafeso had declared in part: “Our attention has been drawn to the purported claim to the office of the Lagos State Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) by one Segun Adewale (aka Aeroland).
“We wish to categorically state without fear or favour that the said impostor, Segun Adewale, is not a member of our party.
“It might interest you to know that this individual is the gubernatorial candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) in the 2018 Governorship election of Ekiti State, and we do not have a record of him decamping to our party, either in Lagos State or any other state chapter.
“Against the aforementioned, we wish to ask that you use your good office to maintain peace and order by restraining Segun Adewale from having access to the State Headquarters of our party in Lagos State, currently at 56A, Adekunle Fajuyi Way, Ikeja or any other PDP facility.”

			
			Post Views: 
			68