The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) on Sunday began a free medical outreach for rural dwellers in Madorawa Community, a suburb of Sokoto state, to commemorate its 55th anniversary.
 
The medical outreach was part of activities lined up to mark the NAF day scheduled to hold from April 27 to April 29.
 
Speaking at the event, the Commander of 119 Composite Group Sokoto, Group Cpt. Adamu Garba, expressed delight for being part of the medical services in the community.
 
Garba said the exercise was part of Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar’s efforts toward enhancing community relations through providing humanitarian services.
 
He also commended him for uplifting 119 forward operation base Sokoto to composite group for enhanced services.
ALSO READ: N2.2bn fraud: Former Airforce Chief to know fate Nov 12
He said Doctors, Nurses, Pharmacists, Laboratory Scientists and other auxiliary health workers would provide their respective services to beneficiaries free of charge throughout the exercise.
 
He added that drugs, eye glasses and other consumables would also be distributed to beneficiaries for free.
 
According to him, free HIV test will also be conducted along with screening for eye ailments, hepatitis, malaria, diabetes and others while required treatments and drugs will be administered.
 
He disclosed that no fewer than 5,000 people were being targeted on the free exercise and urged the people to take advantage of the outreach to know and improve their health status.
 
The Commander said the event signified the NAF commitment toward improving civil and military relationship.
 
“Today’s event signifies our commitment towards improving our civil-military relationships. It is usually said that a healthy nation is a wealthy nation. This medical outreach will in no small way contribute to the health of this community as some screening exercises such as sugar, hepatitis and HIV tests will be done along with the general medical examinations to beneficiaries. The exercise will also feature distribution of mosquito nets as well as free eyeglasses and dental checks.  Madorawa community was selected because NAF sets to construct Barrack near the settlement; this will be a beginning of moves to facilitate cordial relationship with community members,” he said.
 
He told the villagers that the health professionals at the event were ready to assist them with their health concerns, and those requiring further treatment such as surgery would be referred to nearby hospitals for such treatment.
 
Earlier, the Village Head, Alhaji Umaru Magajin-Madorawa, thanked the NAF for conducting the outreach in his community noting that it would surely enhance peoples’ wellbeing.
 
He also advised members of the community to take advantage of the outreach.

			
			Post Views: 
			92