A DPO of Police has been alleged to have tortured a lady to the point of inflicting injuries on her penultimate week. The victim was said to be purportedly manhandled in the police brutality, causing injuries on her head, thigh and other parts of her body in Ijegun-Egba area of Lagos State. The family members were said to be demanding justice for the torture of their daughter.
It was said that Miss Fatu Rose Ochigbo, an indigene of Benue State identified to be residing at 27, Musi-Anidu Street, Ijegun-Egba, a suburb of Lagos State, still fighting to regain consciousness at a hospital in Lagos after she was allegedly beaten mercilessly by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Agboju Police Station, DST Ibrahim Audu, and his boys, penultimate Saturday.
An eyewitness, who is known in the area as Aunty Pauline, was said to have narrated that the victim, Miss Fatu Ochigbo, was in her house cooking; as she came out of her room to throw away water into the gutter, she saw several persons being chased by Police men running toward her compound.
Aunty Pauline was said to have added that for the fear of her own safety, Miss Fatu started running back to her room but the Police quickly descended on her and allegedly beat her mercilessly, adding that the DPO of Agboju Police Station allegedly hit the innocent lady on the head with the Police baton, leaving her broken skull gushing out blood
It was said that the Police were chasing a MALE suspected hoodlum terrorising the area but incidentally descended on Miss Fatu.

Fatu Ochigbo was said to be rushed to the nearest hospital and treated by the Police at the cost of N16,000 after realising she girl was an innocent victim of attack.
It was, however, said that the victim is in great pain, cannot sleep and has lost substantial quantity of blood. Ironically, the DPO was alleged to have come back to ask for the refund of the N16,000 hospital bill he paid for the treatment. Miss Fatu was said to have squeezed herself to raise the 16,000 to pay the DPO who allegedly threatened to kill her if she didn’t pay back the money.
The victim’s family was said to be demanding justice, seeking help from Nigerians. The family was said to be protesting how the police could mistake an innocent lady for a male suspect.











			
			Post Views: 
			52