Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State, in conjunction with other
governors and state chairmen of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in
the north central, on Thursday, guaranteed the national leadership of
the APC of the mass support of the newly elected lawmakers on the
platform of the APC in the north central for the Senate Majority
Leader, Senator Ahmad Lawan, who is contesting for the senate
president, and the House of Representatives Majority Leader, Femi
Gbajabiamila, candidate for the Speaker of the House. Other APC
governors in the north central were said to be part of the decision in
conjunction with the state chairmen in the zone to endorse Lawan and
Gbajabiamila for the Ninth National Assembly leadership.
ALSO READ: NASS Leadership: Igbo group endorses Lawan, Okafor
The endorsement was said to be disclosed at a closed-door stakeholders
meeting of the north central at the Plateau State Governor’s Lodge,
Asokoro, Abuja. The Chief Press Secretary to the Plateau State
Governor, Mark Longyen, said that the meeting was presided over by
Governor Lalong.
Governor Lalong had declared: “A meeting of governors and the party
chairmen from North Central on Thursday resolved to go along with the
decision of the party’s endorsement of Senator Ahmed Lawan as Senate
President and Hon Femi Gbajabiamila as the Speaker of the House of
Representatives for the 9th National Assembly.
“Since it was a party affair, our decision was in line with the wish
of the party and that is why we the governors and state chairmen of
our party from the zone are in support of the decision of the party.”
The Plateau governor could not say specifically what the north central
benefits from the power sharing scheme of the APC. “We are still
deliberating. We have not exhausted the positions with respect to
zoning. Our decision and position are only on two issues, while the
rest deliberations are ongoing.
“There is going to be a continuation of our meeting in respect of
positions to the North Central with both Mr. President and the party,”
Lalong declared.


			
			Post Views: 
			135