The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) and National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) have urged Nigerians to stop panicking over rumored impending fuel scarcity.
The two groups who assured Nigerians of sufficient supply of the product confirmed that about six vessels of imported petrol ordered by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) were currently discharging the product.
National President of IPMAN, Chinedu Okoronkwo, said there is no need for panicking over fuel scarcity, as virtually all the NNPC depots across the states had commence loading of petroleum product by marketers.
“Marketers are currently loading petrol in Makurdi, Kano, Enugu, Aba,Yola, Suleja, Kaduna, Ejigbo, Mosinmi, Ibadan and other depots across the country. The shortfall in distribution was due to slow pace of product importation and hitches at the jetty which had been addressed.
“I have also directed them to ensure product is sold at official price of N145 per litre. If there is any issues on distribution and pricing differentials, members should call the secretariat for further action,” he said.
Tayo Aboyeji, Chairman, Lagos Zone of the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), also corroborated the IPMAN’s president, saying “there is enough fuel, Nigerians should avoid panic buying’’.
‘’As at Friday, we have instructed our tanker drivers to engage in 24-hours loading activities and lift products from depots to filling stations across the country.
“We will ensure 24-hours service delivery of product distribution in the country, we also urge government to checkmate activities of the task force in Lagos and along Ibadan expressway.
“Our members are being extorted and harassed by members of the task force. Some drivers who were scheduled to load in Lagos were denied asses to Lagos, which also affects effective distribution of products,’’ he said.
Chairman, Western Zone of IPMAN, Debo Ahmed, however attributed the ongoing queues at some stations was due to shortfall in NNPC distribution network to depots.
Ahmed said that all depots within the South-West zone were loading at a low pace due to insufficient products.
“We have lots of pending tickets from marketers awaiting loading at depots but were still stranded.
Also, Alhaji Ayo Alanamu, the Chairman, IPMAN Ejigbo Satellite depot, attributed the challenges to shortfall of the product from NNPC.
Alanamu said that marketers, IPMAN and NNPC retails battled with 40-trucks on daily basis which was not sufficient.
He urged government to expedite action toward importing more products to avoid another round of scarcity that had ended.

			
			Post Views: 
			84