In order to enhance adequate planning and logistics demands, the Nigerian Army organised a four-day training programme on operation Planning Cadre with the theme: Sustaining Capacity Building as a Key to successful conduct of Military Operation Other Than War (MOOTW).
Speaking as the Special Guest of Honour during the closing ceremony on Thursday at the 81 Division Officers Mess, Marina, Air Vice Marshall Abubakar Liman observed that the training had improved participants’ knowledge and standards required in their performance of military duties.
He noted that the participants drawn from 81 division Areas of Responsibility, Nigerian
Immigration, Customs, Prisons and Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps put through the Estimate Planning Process in MOOTW, Military Decision Making Process,  Inter-cooperation in MOOTW and the Legal Obligations/Human Rights , in the conduct of Counter Terrorism and Counter Insurgency.
AVM Liman, who is the Commandant, Nigerian Armed Forces and Resettlement Centre, (NAFRC) Oshodi, said, “Your knowledge were broadened on topics covering Intelligence Gathering  as a tool to successful conduct of military operations , logistics planning in MOOTW and Social Media/ Citizenship, their influence and effects on military operations as well as interactive sections.
“I am therefore, convinced that these topics were carefully selected for the cadre , in fulfillment of the Army Headquarters and the Division training directives.  Let me also quickly point out here that as middle/junior commanders and staff officers, this cadre experience would come handy in your various courses, either in your service/ organization or courses at Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji. It will equally be beneficial in command and staff roles while carrying out your professional military duties”.
On his part, the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 81 Division, Major General  Sani Yusuf , explained that the training was designed to improve the operational planning skills of Commanders and Staff officers in both joint and single service operations ,  in order to galvanize synergy, professional output, as well as exposing  them  to aspect of MOOTW.
The training according to him, took place simultaneously in other divisions across the country in line with the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Buratai’s directive , to have a professionally responsive Nigerian Army in the discharge of its constitutional role.
Gen Yusuf remarked that “Training like this is done in order to improve the professional efficiency of our officers and soldiers. It is to make our officers better professionals in the discharge of their duties, be it in peace time or in operational areas.”
Responding to question on why the Police was not represented, he said, “All security agencies were invited because the MOOTW is internal operation and we are all aware that the police is the lead agency in internal security operations. We all have our respective roles to play.
He averred that they would ensure that invitations are not only sent during the next training module but will follow it up with visitation. He also disclosed that the training shall be held in  every quarter.
Some of the participants who beared their minds on what they have learnt, said the training would help them carry out proper logistical planning and estimates during operations and in other duties required of them.
Oluwatobi Adebanjo, a deputy superintendent of Immigration disclosed that the course would help him in planning and interactions with immigrants.
Also, Soetan Kazeem of NSCDC noted that the training has widened his knowledge on how to prepare for an operation especially getting all the logistical need in such operations especially tackling pipeline vandals.
However, Major Joseph Enya of the Nigerian army remarked that as a capacity building programme, the training would go a long way at aiding them in various operations

			
			Post Views: 
			27