Atiku Abubakar and his party have let put more details in the bid to prove to the presidential election tribunal he was rigged out of the Feb 23 election.
Atiku gave out the IP address, server name, and network providers of the source of the result.
His response followed INEC’s denial that the presidential election result the PDP presidential candidate and his party presented at the tribunal was fake, and not from INEC’s server.
Taking Atiku claim as convincing as he wants the tribunal and Nigerians to believe–that the figures are from INEC servers—then the possibilities before political analysts are:

Atiku and PDP had unauthorized access to INEC’s server—an illegal act christened as hacking, which is punishable by Nigeria’s cyber crime Act 2015.  It states: if found guilty, of unlawfully accessing a computer system or network, hackers are liable to a fine of up to N10 million or a term of imprisonment of 5 years (depending on the purpose of the hack).
Atiku, his party, and lawyers now cite as evidence a statement by an APC spokesperson who first claimed it was a hack into INEC presidential election server. Buhari Campaign spokesman and lawyer Festus Keyamo’s issued a statement in March, urging the inspector-general off police to arrest Atiku for hacking into INEC server when the matter came before the tribunal.
Atiku and the PDP in the run up to the election said it was deploying Parallel Voters Technique to ensure there was no rigging. The random sampling, statistical technique has been around for years courtesy of the US National Democratic Institute. It was used by observers in Ghana in 2016. YIAGA AFRICA, a civil society organisation, also used it Feb 23 for the presidential election.

PVT, no matter the number of people using it for the same election, will always get about the same range of result. YIAGA AFRICA’s use of the PVT finding, substantiated INEC final result.
“YIAGA AFRICA’s findings show that for the presidential election the All Progressive Congress (APC) should receive between 50.0 per cent and 55.8 per cent of the vote. The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) should receive between 41.2 per cent and 47.0 per cent of the vote; these figures are consistent with the official results as just announced by INEC. “For both APC and PDP the official results fall within the PVT estimated ranges,”
But PDP, using same technique, arrived at a different result which is a product of the entire population result the party claimed it found in INEC’s server.

			
			Post Views: 
			829