Kenneth Omeruo says Ohiri Kingsley will form team Nigeria’s bedrock for years to come. The Nigerian professional footballer who plays as a defender for CD Leganés on loan from Chelsea and the Nigeria national team says Nigeria must keep an eye on the young sensational player.
Young Nigerian star Ohiri Kingsley toasted his amazing National Team debut by putting some sparkling performances in the National Under 17 Football Team of 2015 – 2017. In this period he was instrumental in qualifying the Golden Eaglets for the World Cup.
Ohiri Kingsley has been firing eye-catching goals and titillating midfield brilliance for the Amakson Football Academy and Wonder Boys Football Club in the Amateur league since 2014. He has now developed into a fine player and little wonder he is now attracting the needed attention.
And Kenneth Omeruo insisted he hopes the young Nigerian talents will become part of the National Team fabric.
Asked if the winner of the Best Player Award in the Kenneth Omeruo Football Competition is Nigeria’s next big thing, Kenneth said: “I think so and I hope so. In the future, he can become a top player; for this U23 Super Eagles, the future looks so good for him.”
Ediale Kingsley, a football journalist who has watched Ohiri play said, “The youngster is Versatile, creative and intelligent player with leadership qualities, comfortable anywhere in the middle of the pitch always anxious to create a niche for himself while helping the team as a whole”.
Some of Ohiri’s personal achievement includes, Best Player in Kenneth Omeruo (Super Eagles International) Competition, Highest Goal Scorer in FA Cup, Most valuable player national league.
The regular international, Omeruo has represented Nigeria at the 2013 Africa Cup of Nations and the 2013 Confederations Cup in Brazil. Omeruo cemented a place in the starting line-up at the Africa Cup of Nations as it turned into a wonderful tournament for the Super Eagles and they emerged from the tournament victorious. The defender says Nigeria Football Association should not keep their eyes off the 20 year old talent.

			
			Post Views: 
			65