There are emerging symptoms of increasing security risks in Nigeria as President Muhammadu Buhari administration begins the process of reintegrating repentant Boko Haram militants into communities and the wider society. Several stakeholders in the polity trace the increasing risk to the degree of trust and confidence people or the federal government can have on the assumed repentant Boko Haram terrorists in guaranteeing the security of the country. There are fears if the reintegrated Boko Haram insurgents will not reintegrate with their colleagues who are still in the battlefield or act as spies on the security architecture of the government and transmit information to their supposed former commanders and colleagues.
However, it was gathered that the federal government has arranged for the reintegrated Boko Haram terrorists to undergo deradicalization and rehabilitation programme of “Operation Safe Corridor”.
The reintegration process began with the ex-militants now called clients, meeting with the members of their families and community leaders.
The meeting between repentant ex-Boko Haram members and their families, as well as community leaders, were identified to be queer and unbelievable.
Witnesses at the meeting narrated that it was the first time these people would be sitting in opposite sides face-to-face.
What happened next was emotional, happiness mixed with excitement as the clients meet their wives, sisters, mothers and community leaders. Their expression said it all.
It was a meeting that the clients were excited about showcasing their ability to the people that they once terrorized to and brimming with confidence about their future.
It was indicated that the Nigerian Army aim at creating confidence for both the ex-militants and the communities as the last leg of the reintegration program begins.
However, the process was initiated to convince other Boko Haram fighters still in the battlefield that their safety is guaranteed by the government on their surrender from the insurgency and laying down their arms.

			
			Post Views: 
			91