December 30, 2018 - Manchester, United Kingdom - Manchester United''s Paul Pogba celebrates after scoring his teams first goal during the Premier League match at Old Trafford, Manchester. Picture date: 30th December 2018. Picture credit should read: Matt McNulty/Sportimage Photo via Newscom
        
 


Not spared by critics since his return to Manchester United two and a half years ago, Paul Pogba has been tackled by Roy Keane after the loss of the Red Devils this week in the derby of Manchester (2-0). The French world champion responded to these criticisms on Sunday at the microphone of RMC Sport, after the draw against Chelsea (1-1).
Having returned to a very good level in the post-finish matches on Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s bench, Paul Pogba has been on the pace for a few weeks. And again draws the criticism of British consultants, rarely tender with him since his return to Manchester United two and a half years ago. After Wednesday’s defeat of the Red Devils against Manchester City (2-0), the French world champion has been tapped by Roy Keane.
ALSO READ : Pogba keen on Bernabeu move
“This guy is a talented boy, but we’ve been saying the same thing for a very long time, how many times have we seen him in games where he’s not running at all?”, The former captain of MU dropped to the microphone of Sky Sports. . This Sunday, after the draw conceded by his team against Chelsea (1-1), Pogba was questioned by RMC Sport on the criticism of which it is the object.
“They can say what they want”
“There are no worries, they are paid to tell things in front of the cameras, I just take care of the field, they can say what they want, they get paid for it, I’m not I’m paid to be on the pitch and fight for my team, that’s all, “said the former Turin.
In a four-game winless series in all competitions, Pogba and the Red Devils missed the opportunity against the Blues to restart in the Champions League race. Two days from the end of the championship, they are sixth in the standings, three points from the top 4. They will try to reconnect with success in a week in Huddersfield, before closing their season by the reception of Cardiff.

			
			Post Views: 
			125