Presidential candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party in the just concluded presidential election Atiku Abubakar on Tuesday released results purportedly sourced from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) server showing he won the presidential election.
 
Atiku, in his petition submitted at the tribunal, claimed he garnered a total of 18,356,732 votes to defeat Buhari, who, according to him, polled 16,741,430 votes as against the results declared by INEC where Buhari polled 15,191,847, while Atiku came second with 11,262,978 votes.
 
Atiku, during his submission to the presidential election tribunal, gave the “unique MAC address and Microsoft product ID of the INEC server” from which the results were obtained.
 
The electoral body had in its response to the petition of the PDP and Atiku at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, stated that the result of the election was never transmitted or collated electronically, adding that the results being paraded by Atiku was fabricated and not from its website.
 
However, in response to INEC’s claim, Atiku and the PDP in a statement released Tuesday said the address of the server from which the results were obtained are unique to INEC.
ALSO READ: 2019: How PDP leaders betrayed Atiku
“The Servers from which the said figures were derived belong to the first Respondent (INEC). The figures and votes were transmitted to the first Respondent’s Presidential Result’s Server 1 and thereafter aggregated in INEC_PRES_RSLT_SRV2019, whose Physical Address or unique Mac Address is 94-57-A5-DC-64-B9 with Microsoft Product ID 00252-7000000000-AA535. The above descriptions are unique to the 15t Respondent’s Server,” they said.
 
“There is no conjecture in the votes and scores in the table pleaded by the Petitioners. The figures are factual. The Spokesperson for the 2nd Respondent’s Campaign Organization openly admitted that the data in question was in the first Respondent’s Server when he wrote and submitted a petition to the Inspector General of Police and the Director General of the Department of State Services (DSS) asking the Security agencies to investigate the 2nd Petitioner herein for allegedly hacking into the Server of the 1St Respondent and obtaining the data in question.
 
“Specifically, Mr. Festus Keyamo, SAN, the Spokesperson of the 2nd Respondent claimed in the said petition that it was the first Petitioner who smuggled the data into the Server,” PDP added.
 
Atiku and the PDP also alleged that the INEC chairman “committed grave errors in the final collation exercise” for the election by “falsely crediting” some persons with political parties, including “Okotie Christopher, Reverend Dr. Onwubuya and Ojinika Jeff Chinze.”
 
“The grave errors referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 above were under the hands and signature of the first Respondent’s Chairman, (who was also the Returning Officer) in the conduct of the final collation of the results of the Presidential Election,” they claimed.
 
“The Petitioners state that the final results as declared by the first respondent are those that were transmitted online to the website of the first Respondent (www inecnigeria.org),” PDP insisted.

			
			Post Views: 
			154