The Senator-elect for Abia North, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, has appealed to the leadership of the All Progressive Congress (APC) to zone the position of Deputy Senate President to the South East geo-political zone.

Kalu, while speaking on Monday at the ongoing induction of Senators-elect and House of Representatives members-elect, noted that zoning the Deputy Senate President to the South East will be in line with the diversity of the country.

“I am asking the party, as they have zoned this position of Senate President to North East, they should as well zone the position of the deputy Senate President to South East. So that I don’t go to contest out of zone.

“I am pleading with the leaders of the National Working Committee and other leaders, let us not divide this party. All of us are loyal to the country. We are loyal to the constitution. We are also loyal to our party. I want that loyalty to continue, so that none of us will deviate from what the party”

On the position of Senator Kabiru Gaya that the slot of Deputy Senate President should be zoned to the North West Kalu said:

“You know, he is a senior governor. That is his view. It is not a view that represents the views and understanding of the country. He is a man I respect a lot. But his view does not represent the diversity of the country.

“Even if you like take the President, Vice President, Speaker, Senate President to one part of the country, you have not solved the problem of the country.

“The diversity of the country is the beauty of the country. I will like APC as a party to look at diversity. Diversity is our strength. Diversity is very important.

“I don’t want to formally declare anything until the party zones to our zone. I am not going to challenge the party, but I want the party to do the right thing. I have the capacity to go on the floor of the House and contest. It is this people here that will vote and they are our friends. But I want the party to do the right thing.”








			
			Post Views: 
			35