Ronaldo has joked he may have to come out of retirement after watching his La Liga side miss several penalties this season.
The two-time Brazilian World Cup winner has been majority owner of Valladolid since September 2018 after buying a 51 per cent controlling in the club for £26m.
In an exclusive chat with Brazil superstar Neymar for the Otro (Our Other Club) App, Ronaldo admits he is getting frustrated seeing shot-shy strikers miss from 12 yards. Especially as they are in 16th place and battling to avoid relegation.
In their conversation, Neymar, 27, said there is a belief that “important penalties should be shot by the club’s president”.
Ronaldo, 42, responded: “Don’t go there. I’m a club president now!
“We had five penalties this year. We missed them all at Valladolid. We missed them all. I’m almost getting on the pitch to try it myself.
“Penalties are awful. It’s such a big responsibility.”
Neymar, the most expensive footballer history when he moved from Barcelona to PSG for £198m in August 2017, has scored 60 goals for Brazil.
He is just two goals shy of matching Ronaldo’s Selecao record. Pele is the main man with 77 goals from 92 caps.
Understandably, Ronaldo says it’s only a matter of time before he is overtaken in the scoring charts, saying: “You’re going to surpass me as a striker in the national team.
“And I’m looking forward to it. It’s a matter of time. Go for it and leave me be, with my own number of goals. You are young. You have many things to achieve yet!”
Ronaldo, winner of the World Cup in 1994 and 2002, revealed it is tradition in the Brazil side for the rookies to be on the receiving end of practical jokes.
The former Barcelona, Inter and Real Madrid striker said: “I have had some (pranks) as well. They were awful. It was tradition, right? The veterans pranked the younger ones. ‘Clean my boots!’
“Playing for the Selecao is a childhood dream. We grew up watching the World Cup, and this also feeds the passion we have with football.
“Playing for the national team is my best way to show to my country to love and respect.
“You dream about becoming a footballer and you’re passionate about football. Suddenly you are the idol of hundreds of thousands of children. It’s funny.”

			
			Post Views: 
			51