The Ohanaeze Youth Council (OYC) has warned the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) that if the plan by its national chairman, Dr Victor Oye, pulls through, the party might cease to exist after the 2021 governorship election in Anambra. The council gave the warning in a statement issued by its national president, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, after its meeting in Abakaliki, Ebonyi state on Sunday, April 28.
 
It was gathered that Isiguzoro’s comments were in response to a statement credited to Oye, that APGA’s national leadership would remain in Anambra after his tenure.
 
He said such action was capable of destroying the party built as a third force in Nigeria’s politics. According to the youths, a national chairman outside Anambra would serve APGA better, as the party had grown beyond being a state party.
 
The council asserted that the party needs to be restructured to have a national outlook.
ALSO READ : APGA guber candidate Magu battles fake news allegation
Isigozoro pleaded with Governor Willie Obiano not to allow the party sink.
 
He said: “The leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council worldwide frowns at the report credited to the national chairman of APGA, Dr Victor Oye, that the national leadership of the party would remain in Anambra after his tenure as very unfortunate and capable of destroying a party built as a third force in Nigeria.
 
“The current proclamation of Oye is at variance with the party’s slogan, ‘Be my Brother’s Keeper’, which Oye conspired with his co-travellers to harm.
 
Does it truly mean that this party is now the sole property of Anambra people? “Does it mean that other Igbo people and Nigerians who had paid the price to build APGA are now slaves to Anambra State?
 
“This ugly trend must be resisted, as we call on the Board of Trustees (BOT) chairman, Governor Willie Obiano, to use his good offices to thwart this evil plot or APGA is at the edge of political extinction.”
 
He added: “We will raise the consciousness of Nigerians and Ndigbo that there’s evil conspiracy in APGA to use it to defraud Nigerians as witnessed in the last elections.”

			
			Post Views: 
			36