Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State has declared the killers of a former lawmaker in the state, Anthony Igboka, wanted.
The governor also placed a bounty of N5m on their heads for information that could lead to their arrest.
The state Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, Mr. C-Don Adinuba, stated this in a press statement on Wednesday in Awka, the state capital.
ALSO READ:Finally, Gov. Obiano resolves herders, farmers crisis in Anambra
Describing the killing as possible assassination, Adinuba said Obiano had asked the Police Commissioner in the state, Mustapha Dandaura, to lead the operation to apprehend the killers.
The statement reads in part,”The Commissioner of Police in Anambra State, Mr. Mustapha Dandaura, briefed Governor Willie Obiano on the violent death shortly after the dastardly act.
“Governor Obiano consequently announced a N5m reward for any person who can provide useful information on the identity of the killers.
“The governor has also directed the Commissioner of Police in Anambra State to lead a team to apprehend the killers immediately.
“He has, in addition, directed the Department of State Security, intelligence officers in the Nigerian Army and the Nigerian Navy, as well as the Nigerian Security and Defence Corps to join the Nigeria Police Force in the task to bring the culprits quickly.
Obiano charged security agencies in the state to reenact the same level of enthusiasm and competence they exhibited about two weeks ago in the arrest of one Ikechukwu Udensi, the most wanted murder suspect in the state.
“You have to display the same commitment and competence this time in tracing the killers of Igboka, who was also a former chairman of Njikoka Local Government Area,” he said
He described the killing as utterly heartless, noting that the deceased’s elder brother, Mr. Charles Igboka, a former Nigerian diplomat in Europe, died only two weeks ago and was yet to be buried.
Obiano added, “It is a shame that the killing of Chief Igboka should take place in the week leading to Easter when men and women of goodwill throughout the world are reconciling themselves with God and fellow human beings.”
 




ReplyReply allForward




			
			Post Views: 
			55