A group under the aegis of Northern Youth Movement has accused the National Leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC) Bola Ahmed Tinubu, of plotting to take over power from President Muhammadu Buhari before 2023.

0in a statement signed by the group’s chairman, Mallam Ishaya Jato on Saturday, the group claimed that the APC leader’s desperation to take over the National Assembly by installing Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, his “political boy” as Speaker of the House was part of his moves to pave way for his presidential ambition.

The statement by the NYM reads thus; “Tinubu is banking on two scenarios; the President becoming incapacitated before 2022 or his impeachment and he will need the National Assembly for both.

“Having used the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole to take over states in the South from governors like Rochas Okorocha and Ibikunle Amosun that he opined can challenge him in 2023; Tinubu is now after the larger picture of total control of the National Assembly.

“It is, therefore dangerous for the north for the same Southwest, which already has the Vice President to produce the House of Representatives Speaker.

“It’s even more dangerous for the same Tinubu; whose political boy is the Vice President to also have another of his stooge as the House of Representatives Speaker.
ALSO READ: Gbajabiamila, 50 Reps-elect take campaign to Saudi Arabia
“We in the NYM will resist this attempt by one single individual to control the political destiny of our country and we urge our leaders in the north to take note of this.

“This is more so that the in the spirit of federal character formula enshrined in the constitution of Nigeria, the six positions of President, Vice President, Senate President and Deputy as well as Reps Speaker and Deputy available, the six geopolitical zones must get one position each.

“Already, Northwest and Southwest have taken President and Vice President respectively; the remaining four positions must therefore be shared among the South-South, South East, and North Central and North East zones.

“Particularly, the North Central, which gave massive votes to President Buhari must produce the Speaker.”












			
			Post Views: 
			113