The Edo State Peoes Democratic Party (PDP) on Friday condemned the attack on African Independent Television (AIT) by the Federal Government of Nigeria. The State Party described the affront by the Buhari administration as a Witch-Hunt of Chief Raymond Dokpesi.
The State Publicity Secretary, Chris Osa Nehikhare, in a statement in Benin City, declared that, “It is now obvious that Chief Dokpesi and DAAR Communications are targeted for intimidation, harassment and a Mafiosi style shake down.”
The Edo PDP protested that “since enthronement of this government nearly four years ago, the FG has continued to use its security agencies and MDAs especially the EFCC, Nigeria Immigration Service, NSA and the ministry of Federal Capital Territory to harass and intimidate Chief Dokpesi, Founder/Chairman Emeritus, DAAR communications Ltd. ”
“Edo PDP condemns in very strong terms the demolition of sections of DAAR Communications building by officials of the FCT and the recent illegal detention of Chief Raymond Dokpesi at the international Airport by Nigeria Immigration services (NIS) as he returned from an overseas medical trip.
ALSO READ: Why AIT Abuja structure was demolished – FCTA
“The latest infringement on his fundamental human rights and the demolition of the buildings inside the DAAR communications compound is a clear sign of the emergence of a ruthless dictatorship that is averse to opposition, freedom of association, free speech and freedom of expression,” the State Publicity Secretary declared.
The party stated that Chief Raymond Dokpesi’s DAAR communications has been located in its present address for decades. “Even when parties are in arbitration, the government has shown its desperation to hurt Chief Dokpesi and DAAR Communications as it went ahead to demolish and not wait for settlement one way or the other.
“These contrived challenges are not unconnected to the independence of DAAR communications as it allows all shades of political opinion, and this obviously irritates a budding dictatorship,” Edo PDP declared.
Edo PDP therefore called on all Nigerians to resist and condemn the rising anti-Semitic and despotic regime in the country.

			
			Post Views: 
			17