The Police Service Commission has approved the promotion of 8,916 senior Police Officers to fill existing vacancies following the retirement of some officers after the appointment of the Acting Inspector General of Police.
According to a statement on Sunday by Ikechukwu Ani, Head, Press and Public Relations, the promotions were the high points of the 5th Plenary Meeting of the Commission held in Abuja between Tuesday and Wednesday, presided over by the Commission Chairman, retired Inspector General of Police, Musiliu Smith.I’m
Those promoted by the Commission from Commissioners of Police to the rank of Assistant Inspectors General of Police, include Jona Jackson Mava; Olushola Babajide David and Titus Sumba Larmode.
The appointment of two acting Commissioners of Police was also confirmed by the PSC. They include Rudolf Echebi Obe, Works; and Danladi B. Lalas, Air Wing.
The PSC also approved the promotion of 71 Assistant Commissioners of Police to Deputy Commissioners of Police. The officers include Ogundare D. Emmanuel; Alonge Adebowale; Augustina Nwuka Ogbodo; Ibrahim Abdullahi; Garba Ahmed; Uzuegbu Kanayo; Zubairu Abubakar; Vincent N. Nwajiofor, Works; Polycarp Chilaka Dibia and Emeka Frank Mba, the Force Public Relations Officer.
Also, 102 Chief Superintendents of Police, CSPs, were elevated to Assistant Commissioners of Police. They beneficiaries are Michael M. Masomene; Egbe Eko Edum; Onyeamu Akaeme Onyeamu; Dauda I. Ayuba; Chinedu C. Ugwu; Moses Gana; Victor Akongtender Bepeh; Aminu Musa; Danjuma Madugu; Promose Chinedu Udeh; Anthony Okon Placio; Ikechukwu E. Nwosu; Okey C. Nwabufo; Ayodeji A. Dagunduro; Kanu Kanu Okoronkwo, Works; Agbo B. Usman, Forensic; Mustapha A. Rufai; among others.
The Commission approved the promotion of 487 Deputy Superintendents of Police to Superintendents. The new Superintendents of Police are Atiku Ibrahim, Personal Assistant to the acting Inspector General of Police; Florence Odewo; Ojo Abraham; Mohammed Idris and Abraham Ogedengbe.
1165 Assistant Superintendents of Police, ASPs, were moved to the rank of Deputy Superintendents of Police, DSP, while 7086 Inspectors were elevated to Assistant Superintendents of Police.
The new DSPs are Chinemelum Bartholomew of the Complaints Response Unit, Force Headquarters, Abuja; Jeremiah Zumnan; Adewale Ajibuwa, while Hope Nnah of Abia Command; Saviour Etetim made the list of the newly promoted Inspectors to ASPs.
The PSC sends the promotion list to the acting Inspector General of Police on Monday in a letter signed by Nnamdi Maurice Mbaeri, Permanent Secretary and Secretary of the Commission.

			
			Post Views: 
			64