A non-for-profit organization, DAGOMO Foundation Nigeria, says it is partnering the Association of Nigerian Physicians in the Americas (ANPA) and other partners in its biggest push to bring medical assistance to Nigerians, especially the elderly.
According to the group’s Chief Program Officer, Ifueko Omoigui Okauru, MFR, DAGOMO, in this latest humanitarian initiative intends to provide medical, ophthalmological, dental and surgical services holding from April 5 to 10, 2019 in Abuja.
He said the mission has four components, with the first being a medical mission at Jiwa, AMAC LGA and Tugan Kwasou, Bwari LGA from April 5 – 10, 2019; Surgical cases to be handled at the Kubwa General Hospital during the same period.
“April 8th has been set aside for older persons, 60 years and above. A Sickle Cell expert is part of the medical team in Jiwa. Children and persons with sickle cell anemia are specifically invited to consult with the team throughout the mission.”
“The second leg of the mission involves advocacy meetings with government health agencies and stakeholders in the Nigerian healthcare sphere on improving and promoting access to basic healthcare.
He said the program will also involve a Continuous Professional Development (CPD) that will address the Opioid use scourge in the communities through an awareness conference and educational workshop on April 9 2019 holding at Barcelona Hotel, Wuse 2.
The last leg, he said is the free educational training session on helping baby’s breath (HBB) for birth attendants, nurses, trainers, so that with this acquired knowledge, infant mortality rate can be reduced in Nigeria on April 9 and 10 2019 holding at the National Hospital Trauma Centre (3rd for).
“We have a seventy-person strong team of medical professionals coming from the US from April 3, who will be working with no fewer than 100 Nigerian based medical professionals and another 100 Nigerian based non- medical professionals,” he added.
DAGOMO Foundation Nigeria LTD/GTE (www.dagomo.com), is a registered not-for-profit organisation focused on bringing the needs of the elderly to public and individual attention. We strive to be a facilitator of change in the elder care space from “uncaring to caring”; “ignoring to involving”; “unrecognized to being relevant” in our homes, communities and country.

			
			Post Views: 
			65