After 11 years of personal and professional setbacks, one of which was a highly-publicised divorce and multiple surgeries, American golfer Tiger Woods on Sunday made a one of the greatest comebacks in sports history, winning the 2019 Golf Masters for the fifth time.
This victory impressed President Donald Trump of the United States of America, who is set to honour him with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor in the United States.
Trump, who took to his twitter handle said: “Spoke to @TigerWoods to congratulate him on the great victory he had in yesterday’s @TheMasters, & to inform him that because of his incredible Success & Comeback in Sports (Golf) and, more importantly, life, I will be presenting him with the presidential medal of freedom,”
ALSO READ:Mourinho: “I would not be surprised if Barça or Juventus were eliminated”
It is on record that President Donald Trump, a golfer himself, once played with Woods including in February when the pair joined golf great Jack Nicklaus for a round at Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter, Florida.
Here is a look at ten things you might not know about Tiger Woods.
1.    His real name is Eldrick Tont Woods – Eldrick because it has his father’s initial at the start and his mother’s first initial at the end, and Tont is a traditional Thai name
2.    His father was in the army and named his son Tiger because his fellow solider and friend Col. Vuong Dang Phong was also known as Tiger
3.    He is a Buddhist…. Raised in the religion, he claims that his infidelities and fall from grace can be attributed to his deviation from his Buddhist awareness and practices.
4.    At 24, he became the youngest golfer to win the career grand slam.
5.    He was a stutter as a child and overcame it by taking classes at school and talking to his dog at nights.
6.    He became the first billion dollar sportsman. His net worth in 2018 is currently estimated to be $740m.
7.    He had a glittering amateur career, winning the US Amateur Championship three years in a row from 1994-1996. He is the only man to do that.
8.    His father Earl instilled golf in him from a very young age and Tiger would watch his father hit balls in the garage from his high chair from the age of 6 months.
9.    He first began playing at the Navy Golf Course which his dad had access to. He shot 48 for nine holes aged 3.
10. He attended Stanford University to study economics for two years. He was nicknamed “Ukrel” by his friends. He did not graduate but instead left early to turn professional.
 

			
			PV: 
			0