Live in concert at The Love World Arena, Lekki, the air is filled with cheers, the atmosphere is electrifying, the large space is occupied by thousands of humans, the red carpet hosts several feets of champions, the stage is graced by Joe Praize, Ada, Pee You, Ayo Vincent, Sophiyah, K I, Snypa and several other music stars.
The excitement, joy, dance, loud recitations and all is huge.
It’s Sinach’s birthday (March 30) and this is how her many fans, friends and family decides to celebrate a woman, doubtless anointed of God, whose music has traveled through barriers of nations, cities, and towns around the world. We She has led millions upon millions to praise and worship God through the hundreds of songs, and thousands of ministrations she has graced.
There is hardly a Church today around the world who goes by every sunday without singing a song birthed by SINACH.
And in deed, many came all out to attend and celebrate SINACH at the Lekki Love World Arena; as they all agreed that she is a specially blessed and anointed leader, role model, mentor and servant of God.
In marking this great milestone, Team Sinanch dedicated two downloadable birthday songs to her. And lots of people had stuff to say about how her music has changed their lives in many ways.
Ibidokun Olayemi says, “Happy Birthday SINACH..you shall not die but live in health and wealth to declare the goodness of the LORD in the land of the living”.
Elouise (Virgin Islands) also gave a shout out, “May Almighty God favor you with long healthy life as you continue to do Kingdom work through your vocal gift of worship. Indeed you spread so that others can be healed through the anointing on you for worship”.
Read more:
“Happy Birthday St Sinach, I am blessed by your songs, thank you for helping God’s people worship”, says Blessing.
Happy Birthday my sister Sinach ,may God add more years ,yes God did again. From Stanley Ndhlovu – zimbabwe.
Helen Emwanta:
Happy birthday dear Woman of God, only God can tell how far he is taking you this new year, we join the host of heaven to celebrate a music minister extraordinaire
Happy birthday from #BLW UK Zone 2
Cynthia Smythe:
Wonderful! Praise God forever more. A very happy birthday to you dear Sis Sinach. What a glorious day. I thank God for the day He gave you to the world. What a blessing! You will do more ; touch more lives, put the most beautiful songs in our mouth and light us up with Praise and worship. Have a glorious day, keep spreading and shining. Surely He did it again, and will do it again and again. HAPPY BIRTHDAY MA!
Gabriel:
Happy blessed birthday Sinach, thank you for enriching our walk with God and making our fellowship with the Holy Ghost more beautiful. We appreciate you. May God do more for and through you in this year, than He has done all your life. Much love from South Africa!
Uban Uche:
Happy Birthday Sinach! Thank you for being a great influence on worship round the world. God bless you. From CE Enugu 1
Fortune:
Thank you for saying yes to Jesus.Thank you for believing in Pastor Chris Oyakhilome Dsc DD.Thank you for yielding yourself to the great call.Thank you for being a blessing to the body of Christ and to Blwnation.Thank you for the amazing songs the holy spirit sings through you.Thank you for the role you play in the Blw music ministry.Thank you for being a wonderful wife to your precious husband.Thank you for being a mother,sister and friend to many around the world.God bless you ma,‪#‎Happybirthdaysinach‬I love you ma!

			
			Post Views: 
			112