The 11th colloquium that held recently attests to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s political reach and influence given the caliber of prominent Nigerians who were in attendance. The emerging national discourse centered on Asiwaju is, therefore, one that cannot be wished away easily.
The event could not have passed unnoticed given the very elaborate arrangements put in in place to draw local and global attention. The post-event activities have, however, raised loads of curiosity given the subtle push for a Tinubu presidency that emerged a day after.
The colloquium had in attendance the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo who represented President Muhammadu Buhari, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, the Chief Host of the Colloquium and Lagos State governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, Governors of Ondo, Zamfara, Ekiti, Kano, Plateau, Bauchi, Osun, the Governor-elect of Lagos State and Kwara State including Ministers, Traditional Rulers, Diplomats, Senators and some Service Chiefs.
It could be recalled that Tinubu was on the verge of becoming President Buhari’s running mate during the build up to the 2015 presidential polls.
He was, however, allegedly stopped by the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, and other political like minds based on the premise that a Muslim/Muslim ticket should not be obtainable in a religiously diverse country like Nigeria.
Also, Saraki while replying a letter Tinubu wrote him – The Tinubu Rhetoric: My Response – in 2018, alleged that Tinubu is only supporting President Buhari’s re-election with the hope of succeeding him in 2023.
The arguments appear to lend some weight to speculations that the Jagaban has an eye on the presidency. However, it is Tinubu’s perceived ambition, and the doublespeak by chieftains of the ruling party (APC) in the run up to 2019 presidential campaigns, on how power would return to the South-west, that has raised confusing eyebrows.
This is because during the 2019 presidential campaign, the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola and the Vice President Osinbajo told the Yorubas to support President Buhari’s reelection bid in order to have power return to the South-west. But the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha and the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, including the Governor of Imo State, Chief Rochas Okorocha, urged Igbos to vote for Buhari in order for them to have the opportunity of producing a President in 2023
However, the truth remains that a politician of Tinubu’s might and posture cannot be written off come 2023. Many agree that he has worked hard in building the political expressway for himself. His political sagacity is deeply felt in all parts of the country. If Tinubu finally comes out to declare that he is in for the presidential tussle in 2023, there probably would be no Igbo politician that will have that political energy to stand him.

			
			Post Views: 
			85