The PDP Presidential aspirant of the 2019 general elections, Atiku Abubakar, has been consistent with twitting obligations. With 1.9 million gollowers, his @atiku handle has remained active since he joined the social media platform in August 2010.


In his last 10 tweets, Atiku has touched on issues bothering on swift criminal convictions, impunity, insecurity, senseless killings across the nation, kidnappings and killings of British journalists in Kaduna, National Peace and Unity.

And so it seems this twitting gig wasn’t just for the electoins. Atiku Abubakar hasn’t stopped talking on issues if national interests. He seems more active than President Mohammadu Buhari. And if you don’t know, you’ll probably think he is the President-elect.

Here are his last 10 tweets as at the time National Daily reporter compiled them:

1.  “When the punishment for crimes are not forthcoming, criminals are emboldened to commit even worse crimes.”

2.   “As long as there is impunity, our nation will lack unity and security. Impunity must end and must end in earnest. These crimes continue to reoccur because previous killings have not been met with justice.”

3.  “The time for empty rhetoric is long gone. Now is the time for urgent national action to stem insecurity.”

4.  “Nigeria must once again become synonymous with peace, progress and prosperity. This can only happen when crime and punishment are a natural cause and effect.”

5. “These killings must end or Nigeria will lose desperately needed friends, partners and investors. Not only do I condemn this recent killing, but I make an urgent call for the federal and state authorities to track down the culprits and make them pay for their crimes.”

6. “I want the government and people of the United Kingdom to know that these atrocious actions do not reflect Nigeria’s national character.”

7. “I condemn the killing of British aid worker, Faye Mooney, and her Nigerian partner, Mathew Oguche two days ago in Kaduna State. Several other Nigerians were kidnapped during the episode.”




ALSO READ: Atiku Abubakar: a Nigerian by referendum?




8. “We need to keep Nigeria safe for Nigerians and foreigners. The death of any Nigerian or foreigner from terror, crime or insecurity grieves my heart. Nobody’s life is worth taking to advance a religious, political or criminal cause.”

9. “Let us also thank God for the fact that we remain as one nation under God. Where there is unity, there is much hope. Much hope indeed.”

10. “It is with this in mind that I wish the body of Christ and all Nigerians a happy Easter. May God bless us all and may God bless Nigeria.”



Atiku is followed by President Muhammadu Buhari.
 








			
			Post Views: 
			15