By Chioma Obinagwam

Sterling Bank Nigeria Plc has said that its full year 2018 profit increased by 15 percent.
The bank disclosed in a statement on Monday.
According to the statement, the bank posted a Profit After Tax (PAT) of N9.2 billion on gross earnings of N152.2 billion for the financial year ended December 31, 2018 compared with a net profit (PAT) of N8 billion on gross earnings of N133.4 billion in the corresponding period of 2017; thus representing an increase of 15 percent in net profit and 14 percent in gross earnings.

The statement further disclosed that the double-digit growth of top and bottom-line posted FY 2017 and in its 2018 earnings results released Friday to the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has affirmed the potency of Sterling Bank’s medium to long-term strategy.

Commenting on the financial performance, Abubakar Suleiman, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the bank said, “Our 2018 performance demonstrated our commitment to the race we set out on at the beginning of the year. We continued to identify more with our strategic pillars – agility, digitisation and specialisation – enabling us to set the stage for positive and sustainable growth across the business. Our investments in people and technology platforms drove significant traction in the retail and consumer segment, in line with our medium to long term goals.  Overall, the Bank delivered a 14.9 percent growth in profit After Tax to N9.2 billion.”

Reflecting on key performance drivers during the financial year, Abubakar disclosed that consumer loans were up 108.3 percent driven by SPECTA – Nigeria’s leading lending digital platform.

He added that mobile channel usage grew over 80 percent following the launch of Sterling OnePay, an omni-channel mobile banking platform as transaction volumes doubled on the instant payment platform.

In line with the bank’s commitment to sectors that will create jobs, improve living standards and bring about economic growth for the country, Sterling increased its financing efforts in the agriculture sector which accounted for about 10 percent of its loan book. The bank maintained a healthy capital and liquidity position at 13.3 percent and 42.2 percent respectively on account of additional tier 2 capital injection.

On future prospects, Abubakar said, “We would maintain a more customer-centric approach to achieving growth and strive to scale our digital products. Specifically, we will further diversify our loan book by targeting 20 percent share to Health, Education, Agriculture, Renewable Energy and Transportation – our HEART sectors.”

According to him, Sterling Bank would increase access to loans for a wider customer base through other exciting variants of SPECTA and further decentralise the investment market through digital platforms, refocus its corporate and investment banking segment with emphasis on providing innovative solutions to key corporates and banking the value chain.

The lender was recently named the most Innovative Bank of the Year by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System (NIBSS).






			
			Post Views: 
			46