teams up to dislodge Bode George

By Olanrewaju Adesanya
Faithful members of  Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State have trouped out to pass a vote of confidence on the party Chieftain Otunba Segun Adewale in his bid to reposition PDP,citing his winning spirit as their reason for pitching tent with him.
Scores of PDP members wielding placards with various inscriptions, at the assembly demanded that Chief Bode George and cohorts are political entrepreneurs no longer needed in the party.
“We are tired of BG selling our votes in Lagos State,National please rescue us!!!
‘Please come and rescue us from Bode George’,
‘BG has failed PDP Lagos’, ’20yrs of failure by BG and His Cohorts”.
“Bode George and Eddy Olafeso are partner in Political Enterprenuer”.
“Aeroland contributed to the growth of PDP Lagos State,he has the winning spirit we need”.
Addressing the Lagos PDP 2019 General Assembly at the Secretariat,Adewale appraised the party’s situation,linking its failure to amount to much politically as a deliberate move by certain saboteurs within the party.
“We cannot continue to do the same thing same way and expect different results, dear members let’s all have a RETHINK, I want to win, I want to lead you to victory, we all need to achieve this together.
According to Adewale he is resolved to make some reforms going forward which includes;  strengthening of all PDP structures in all the 20LGAs and 37 LCDAs.
“Youth and women shall be given more prominence in the party, our support groups and elders council members in our various LGAs shall be accorded their respective honors.
ALSO READ: Senate Presidency: Setback for Ndume as Borno Governor supports Lawan
“I want all of us to work together for victory ahead of 2023, this is why I am asking all of us to either team for success or follow old part that has led us to failure at every election in Lagos.
“Now, the choice is ours to make whether we want all our collective effort to yield results in 2023 and beyond or remain as failure that we have been faced with since 1999.
Adewale also clears the air on a number of rumours making the rounds in recent times.
” I want to state it here that we don’t have any issues with all the authentic Chairmen in all the 20 LGAs and the other State Executive members.
“We are only against the illegal installment of Dr. Adegbola Dominic who was imposed on the party by Chief Bode George without following constitutional provisions.
“It is imperative to note that if they fail to adhere to the constitution, I also have the right to lay claim to the Chairmanship based on my 2016 letter of appointment, because no court or National Executive Committee have asked me not to be Chairman.
“On my sojourn to the ADP, I have since July last year returned back to my Ward, those who followed me to ADP have been returned back to PDP, in fact during the last elections, I donated millions to the PDP campaigns, i donated 5 hummer jeeps.
“I led so many campaign rallies while I also organized trainings for our agents, canversers and others.
“Please, go back home and ask them what was their contribution to the development of this party since they joined, other than taking money from candidates and also cornering election money coming from Abuja.
“I want to charge all members to remain peaceful in every local government, and continue to hold their regular LG and Ward meetings, if you have any challenge, your LG and Ward Chairmen should reach out to me. We are going to be victorious in this struggle to liberate Lagos PDP from those who don’t want it to progress. We are going to rebuild the party and make it a winning machine ahead of the 2023 elections.
” We are not only going to get involved in all the positive moves that will guarantee success for the party, we will also champion all the destiny changing initiatives that will propel Lagos PDP to the land of promise.
“As from today, we are all saying NO more to Baba Sope because PDP belongs to all of us. We must all now be stronger together and say O TO GE TO BODE GEORGE and his brigades.
Undoubtedly Adewale(Aeroland) has a clout in the party which controverts the allegations that his no longer a PDP member as party men from as far as Epe,Eti-Osa,Badagry and other areas were present at the party’s Secretariat Shogunle,venue of the parley to pass a vote of confidence on him.

			
			Post Views: 
			64