The Nigeria Police apprehended as businessman after his wife was killed at a shrine in a local community in Enugu State, southeast Nigeria. The killing of the woman is being suspected to be for ritual purposes. However, the Police is still investigating the incident.  
Officers of the Enugu State Police Command, arrested the Onitsha-based businessman, who identified himself as Ikechukwu Odoh, over perceived complicity in the murder of his wife, Chinenye Odoh, who was shot dead by a young man at a shrine located at Obollo Afor, Udenu Council Area, Enugu State.
The State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Ebere Amaraizu, was said to have confirmed the murder case which occurred on Sunday. The PPRO acknowledged that, “Ikechukwu has been arrested while police have commenced full-scale investigation into the case.”
It was gathered that Ikechukwu has been having domestic dispute with his deceased wife, for a very long time over their marriage. The marriage conflict was said to have made them travel to their village, Obollo Afor, for family intervention and settlement in a traditional way.
A family source was said to have disclosed that the late Chinenye, mother of two, was taken to a witch doctor, (babalawo) in the neighbourhood, who told the couple to go to the community shrine to resolve their marriage crisis.
The source narrated; “Before now, the husband wanted a divorce, but Chinenye did not want their marriage dissolved after two kids and that was how the issue of going to the shrine for settlement was arrived at, though she didn’t know that danger was lurking around.
“On their arrival at the shrine, a lone gunman hiding within the premises opened fire and shot Chinenye at close range and ran away leaving her in a pool of blood,”
The source noted that the chief priest of the shrine was not put on notice about the couple’s visit to the shrine. Ikechukwu was said to be seen making some suspicious phone calls before the shooting of the wife.
The community leaders were said to be raised suspicion of ritual in the death of Ikechukwu’s wife, demanding thorough investigations. They were said to be of the belief that Ikechukwu may have plotted to use the community intervention to legitimize a ritual intention under the guise of settling marriage dispute in a traditional way.  







			
			Post Views: 
			75