advocates restructuring

Former Governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, has faulted the
kind of democracy practiced by the current generation of politicians
in Nigeria, saying it is a system that cannot bring about the best in
all spheres of the country’s national interest.
The former Ogun State Governor who was the Special Guest of Honour at
the 2nd Annual Lecture of a media outfit, Freedom Online, at the Alvan
Ikoku Hall, Radisson Blu, Ikeja, on Thursday, lamented that Nigeria is
still operating a system that has been in practice since 1960 without
a change which, he noted,  cannot bring about any meaningful
development.
Gbenga Daniel argued that no nation can thrive on a static ideology,
especially, in this modern age with its attendant global evolution in
all indices of development. “That is why our democratic system has to
be reviewed by way of restructuring or else it will give more room for
constitutional crisis, inequity, mediocrity, injustice and
corruption,” he admonished.
He remarked that with the collapse of the Berlin Wall and the dropping
of the Iron Curtain, doors were closed against Communism and Socialism
as political ideologies, opening a new vista in the socio-political
economy of respective countries which paid off as their economies rose
tremendously. “Even China has joined the fray and is now about the
biggest economy in the world,” the former governor stated.
“What I am saying in essence is that if we continue to practice
democracy without a drastic change, it cannot work. It will only make
people poorer and hopeless.
“This is why the progressive minded politicians like myself and
political pundits are clamouring for restructuring which will address
the challenges facing us as a nation and proffer meaningful solutions
for the betterment of the people,” Gbenga Daniel declared.
ALSO READ: Ex-President Bashir’s brothers arrested in Sudan
The former governor expressed that his retirement from partisan
politics was because of his persuasion that it is better to leave the
stage early enough for the younger generation to come up with fresh
ideas and contribute their quota towards developing the nation instead
of the older ones sitting tight and counting years which most African
leaders have been accused.
He noted that he anticipated commendation for his bold decision but
was surprised when people reacted to the contrary, saying he shouldn’t
go into retirement that soon.
Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, represented by Akin Oyebode
(Jnr.), delivered the lecture titled: “Fixing The Economy, Less
Politics More Substance’. Former Governor of Abia State and
Senator-elect, Orji Uzor Kalu was Chairman of the public lecture.
Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina,
was Guest of Honour. Professor Akin Onigbinde delivered the keynote
address.
Other dignitaries at the annual lecture hosted by the publisher of
Freedom Online, Gabriel Akinadewo included the Aare Ona Kakanfo of
Yorubaland,  Oloye Gani Adams; former Minister of Special Duties,
retired Navy Captain  Caleb Olubolade; Dotun Oladipo and Nollywood
actor, Bolaji Amusan, etc.









			
			Post Views: 
			108