By Esther Egbe

The Nigeria Shooting Sports Federation says no fewer than 46 journalists are participating in the ongoing National Media Shooting Workshop and Competition, National Daily learnt.

NSSF spokesperson, Amos Eche, told reporters that the programme was aimed at acquainting journalists with the techniques , terminologies and rudiments of the sports of shooting .

The three- day event is taking place at the Nigerian National Shooting Range , Package B, National Stadium Complex , Abuja .

Eche noted that shooting sports had been in existence for over 30 years in Nigeria, and said the participants would be properly introduced to it and be taught all its rudiments.

“ The instructors will teach participants all they need to know about the sports and they will be introduced to other members of the federation and other correlating programmes to expect .

“ We have a total of 46 sports journalists from across the country , that is , one journalist per state, and other national officials of impeccable history in the media world .

“ Participants will be expected to compete in two games – Air Pistol and Air Rifle ( 10 metres range ) – with no gender disparity , after the orientation ,” he said .

Eche said the president of the federation and the board of the NSSF appreciated the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria for the recognition accorded the federation, especially for the media workshop .

“ We are set to give the best through this workshop and crest our name in the sand of history .

“ We are equally appealing to SWAN’ s leadership and its participants to bear with us over the challenges encountered in the area of accommodation .

“ We also pray that the synergy we have already built is sustained for greater productivity . Our togetherness doesn ’ t have to end after the media shooting workshop and competition,” he said .

The event which started on Thursday saw the participants through workshops on how to cover the sports, and a competition amongst the sports journalists.

Winners emerged at the end of the event, and the list includes:

Air Rifle Men’s Category

1. Wole Opatola(31points)-Gold Medal

2. John Akubo (7points)-Silver Medal

3. Solomon Bassey (3points)-Bronze Medal


Air Rifle Women’s Category

1. Esther Egbe(1point)-Gold Medal


Air Pistol Men’s Category

1. Ahmed Kagana(39points)-Gold Medal

2. Niyi Busari (25points)-Silver Medal

3. Seun Ajayi (19points)- Bronze Medal


Air Pistol Women’s Category

1. Georgina Adegble (25points)-Gold Medal

2. Ijeoma Nwante (11points)-Silver Medal


3. Isabella Ekeoma (11points)-Bronze Medal

Special Recognition Award

1. Comr. Honour Sirawoo(President, SWAN)-Developmental Leadership Award.

2. Late Olajide Fashekun(former Sports Editor, ThisDay Newspaper)-Lifetime Achievements Award)-received by Chief Mary Onyeale on behalf of the family.

Gold Medal recipients

1. Bonny Nyong-VP, South-South

2. Sadique Moyoyo-VP, North-East

3. Foster Chime-VP, National Officer

4. Alloy Chukwuemeka-National Officer

5. Ndubueze Chidoka-SWAN chairman, F.C.T Chapter

			
			Post Views: 
			76