Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), said he has directed his lawyers to challenge the court order revoking his bail and directing his arrest in the United Kingdom.
Kanu on Radio Biafra maintained that the revocation of his bail will never stand, saying he has instructed his lawyers to challenge the arrest warrant in a UK court.
Kanu declared: “The revocation of my bail will never ever hold; they can never convict us because we have done nothing wrong.
“Every move they make, every decision they take, I will challenge. I have instructed my lawyers, we will challenge in a competent court of law here in Britain where law actually works. I am waiting for them.
“Any day you instruct INTERPOL, that day I will take it up in court and they must answer because here is a civilised country.
“First, I am not a Nigerian citizen. Your bail revocation will never ever work. Anybody interested in revoking my bail would have asked the army what they were doing in my place.
“They have not even defined the crime they said I have committed. There is no crime in Nigeria called secession; secession is not a crime in Nigeria or anywhere in the world. Only armed rebellion is a crime, not self-determination.
“If you are out to demoralise us, you will never ever succeed. We will continue to agitate; we continue to move forward because we are IPOB; we don’t relent and can never ever relent.
“Which crime did Nnamdi Kanu and his co-defendants commit? Somebody should name it. Secession is not a crime.”
Kanu has been facing trial with other Biafran activists over alleged treason; he flee Nigeria after military invasion of his residence in Abia State, and went into hiding months after his bail but reappear in Israel after one year from where he moved to the UK.
The presiding judge of the Federal High Court, Abuja, Justice Binta Nyako, revoked the bail granted Kanu in 2017, after his continued absence in court. She further issued an arrest warrant against the IPOB leader ion the same reason for revoking the bail.

			
			Post Views: 
			57