Share this on WhatsApp
FIFA and the LOC are pleased to announce that the accreditation process for media representatives wishing to cover the FIFA Women’s World Cup France 2019™ has been launched via the FIFA Media Channel http://media.fifa.com/.
The deadline for accreditation applications is 4 April 2019.
The FIFA Women’s World Cup France 2019™ will be played from 7 June to 7 July in Grenoble, Le Havre, Lyon, Montpellier, Nice, Paris, Reims, Rennes and Valenciennes. The final will take place in Lyon on Sunday, 7 July 2019.
Media accreditation for written press and photographers will be managed through the FIFA Media Channel. Applications via the FIFA Media Channel will also be accepted from non-rights holders (NRHs, media entities that have not acquired the rights for the broadcast coverage of the event). Non-Rights Holders Guidelines for the event are available on the FIFA Media Channel, including all the relevant information on NRH accreditation, related access and footage use restriction.
Please be informed that the number of NRH accreditations issued for the FIFA Women’s World Cup™ will be very limited and, furthermore, that their access to venues will be restricted to non-matchdays only. For any further queries in relation to NRHs, please contact nrh@fifa.org.
A separate accreditation process for FIFA Media Rights Licensees (MRLs) will be managed by the Broadcaster Services team at FIFA TV, who will provide MRLs with a specific link for online accreditation registration on the FIFA TV Extranet. For further queries, please contact BroadcasterServicing@fifa.org.
Media representatives who do not have an approved FIFA Media Channel account can submit a registration form by visiting http://media.FIFA.com/registration.
Please note that approval to access the FIFA Media Channel does not mean that you have been granted accreditation. Media accreditation for any FIFA event requires the completion of an accreditation form that can be accessed on the FIFA Media Channel.
All applications are subject to confirmation and accreditation will not be allocated on a first-come, first-served basis. Successful applicants will be notified and provided with further information in due course. Furthermore, please be advised that international applicants are responsible for obtaining their own visas.
Important notice regarding accreditation system:
FIFA is introducing a new accreditation system that requires a user ID and password that is separate from the FIFA Media Channel. When clicking on the media accreditation link, first-time users of the accreditation system will need to establish an account by creating a password and clicking on “Register” to access the accreditation form.
For more information on the FIFA Women’s World Cup France 2019™, please visit FIFA.com.
Share this on WhatsApp