Share this on WhatsApp
The Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore Fulani has said that the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, is not Fulani.  It has been reported that Saleh Alhassan who is the national secretary of the group was reacting to Atiku’s alleged claim that President Muhammadu Buhari is not a real Fulani. At a rally in Jigawa, Atiku reportedly said “a real Fulani man would not drag his followers into extreme poverty like what is happening under the All Progressives Congress administration.” Alhassan said the fact that Atiku speaks Fulfulde does not make him Fulani.
He said: “The truth of the matter is that, in several places in Adamawa State, they speak Fulfulde. The fact that Atiku speaks Fulfulde doesn’t make him a Fulani man. If you look at Atiku physically, he doesn’t carry the biological features of a Fulani man. You look at Atiku and you see the Bantu tribe. He doesn’t belong to the Sudanic tribe. “Also, we don’t know Atiku’s uncle and all Fulani know their uncles. Have you ever seen Atiku’s uncle? His claim to Fulani background is shrouded in uncertainty because nobody knows his uncles. Buhari’s ‘Fulani-ness’ is not in doubt. His father was an Ardo, a Fulani leader. So, I think it is not an issue.” The Fulani leader said his community had rejected Atiku in the elections because he “doesn’t share in our pains and problems,” adding that the PDP candidate wanted to “use our problems and campaign with them.” He said: “Is Atiku not responsible for the crisis on the Mambilla Plateau? They went there, took over the land from the indigenous people and created mega farms and ranches, plunging them (Fulani) into poverty. “If there is anybody that has created poverty, it is Atiku and the PDP. Over the 16 years they ruled this country, they virtually raped the country in a very shameful manner. It will be a disaster for Nigeria for Atiku to become president and I know God will not allow it because he doesn’t mean well for the poor people in this country.” Meanwhile, the director general of APC campaign organisation in Yobe state speaking at the inauguration of the executives of Concerned Marketers Solidarity Forum (CMSF) for Buni, Bra-bra and Khadija, said that Peoples Democratic Party has no hope in the state.
The DG said that Yobe had been the comfort zone of APC and it would always be. He said that the administration strides of Governor Ibrahim Gaidam and President Muhammadu Buhari have given them reason to campaign massively and ensure the victory of the party at all levels.
 
Share this on WhatsApp