Share this on WhatsApp
Paris Saint-Germain is pleased to announce the signing of Leandro Daniel Paredes. The Argentinian midfielder, who arrived from Zenit St Petersburg, has signed a four-and-a-half year deal with the club until 30 June 2023 after completing his medical examination at Aspetar Hospital in Doha.
The 25-year-old from San Justo in the Buenos Aires region came through the academy at Boca Juniors, one of the Argentine capital’s leading clubs. Whilst at Boca he won the Apertura Championship (2011) and an Argentine Cup (2012) before moving to Italy, spending two seasons at AS Roma (2014-2015 and 2016-2017) playing 54 matches.
The Argentinian international (9 caps, 1 goal) moved to Zenit St Petersburg in the summer of 2017, contributing 10 goals and 15 assists in 61 matches in all competitions for the current leader of the Russian Championship.
Leandro will wear the number 8 jersey for the Rouge et Bleu.
“I’m very proud to be joining Paris Saint-Germain, said Leandro Paredes on signing his contract. After my previous experiences in Italy and Russia, I now have this fantastic opportunity, not only to discover a new league, but above all one to wear one the most prestigious club jerseys in the world. I’d like to thank the chairman and the coach for the confidence they have shown in me by signing me. We all know the extraordinary sporting dimension of Paris Saint-Germain, its players and staff. I share the same high ambitions and I will do everything I can to give my club what it expects of me as a midfielder. I also look forward to the passionate atmosphere of the Parc des Princes, as I grew up with football fever in Argentina.”
“We are very happy to welcome Leandro Paredes into the Paris Saint-Germain family today,” said Nasser Al-Khelaïfi, Chairman and CEO of Paris Saint-Germain. “Leandro brings with him the traditional strengths of Argentinian football- a fighting spirit and excellent technical skills. He will bring a lot to our midfield and I am sure he will fit quickly into our coach’s well-organised and ambitious team. Leandro’s arrival will keep the momentum, both on the pitch and among our supporters, ahead of the major events coming up. Exciting times lie ahead.”
Share this on WhatsApp