Share this on WhatsApp
On Tuesday in Aba, Abia State, President Muhammadu Buhari pledged to provide more infrastructures to the South-East geopolitical zone of the federation.
This, he said, will give a further impetus to the spirit of industry, hard work and competitiveness for which the Igbo are known.
In a statement by the Senior Special Assistant on Media and publicity, Garba Shehu, Buhari said “They deserve more and more infrastructure to further excel,”
President Buhari, who kicked off a two-State campaign tour of Abia and Imo States Tuesday, was said to have got two critical endorsements for his second term bid.
“The first was from the Chairman of Aba Traditional Council, His Royal Majesty, Dr Isaac Ikonne, Enyi 1 of Aba, who called on all indigenes of Abia State to vote for the All Progressives Party, APC Presidential Candidate.
He said the Igbo people would remain loyal and committed to President Buhari for the payment of pensions to ex-Biafran security personnel; for the administration’s policy on ease of doing business which, the traditional ruler said, had benefited the Igbo more than any other ethnic group, and the massive infrastructural development going on throughout the southeast.
“You love Nigeria and you need to return to consolidate your fight against the monster of corruption and to take us to the Next Level. I want to assure you that Aba and Abians and indeed all Igbos will massively vote for you,” the royal father told the President as he raised his hand and proclaimed him winner of the coming presidential poll.
The statement said that the second endorsement was by the secretary-general of apex-Igbo socio-cultural group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo,  Uche Okwukwu, who had earlier expressed a dissenting view from that of his chairman in expressing support for the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the imminent elections.
“Okwukwu announced the adoption of President Buhari as the true Ohanaeze candidate who will be formally recognized as such at a coming event at the Aso Rock Villa.
“On his part, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State, welcomed the existing “synergy” between the federal government and his state which he said, had come with enormous gains that are cherished by the government and the people.” he said.

Share this on WhatsApp