The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Ibrahim K. Idris, has appointed Assistant Inspector General of Police Frederick Taiwo Lakanu as the new Force Secretary and member of the Nigeria Police Force Management Team. The appointment takes immediate effect. The new Force Secretary takes over from AIG Abdul Bube, who retired from the Force on December 31, 2018 after Thirty-Five (35) Years of meritorious service.
 
A statement by the Force Public Relations Officer Mr Jimoh Moshood, Acting Deputy Commissioner (Ag DCP), said: “the new Force Secretary is a self-motivated, experienced and versatile law enforcement officer, offering hands-on proven expertise gathered from all geo-political zones of the Country in Community Policing, Strategic Planning, Coordination, Supervision and Implementation, towards achieving higher levels of community service, public safety and security in Nigeria.”
 
It stated further that AIG Lakanu “attended several courses within and outside the Country, including Crime Investigation Course at the Police Staff College, Jos, and Developmental Course at Kofi Annan Centre for Peace Keeping, Accra, Ghana. He is also a fellow of National Defence College, Abuja.”
 
“He served in various capacities in the Force as AIG Federal Operations, Force Headquarters, Abuja, Commissioner of Police in Imo and Ekiti States, Commissioner of Police Airport Command, Lagos, Principal Staff Officer to the IGP (Force Headquarters Annex, Lagos) among others.”
 
“Until his recent appointment, he was the Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of Zone 7 Headquarters, Abuja comprising the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Niger and Kaduna States. He has since assumed duty as the Force Secretary, Nigeria Police Force,” the statement said. 

Lakanu, who is a Fellow of the Defense College, was born on October 12, 1959, in Lagos. He holds B.A. (Hons) Philosophy and LL.B. (Hons) from one of the foremost Universities in Nigeria, the prestigious University of Lagos, Akoka, Lagos State, and Master in Law from the Leeds Metropolitan University, Leeds, United Kingdom.


			
			Post Views: 
			217