The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has challenged the riling All Progressives Congress (APC) to the realities of the insecurity in Nigeria and the true position of its Presidential candidate in the 2019 general elections, Atiku Abubakar. PDP, accordingly, cautioned APC over the false propaganda it is projecting that Atiku is negotiating to cede part of Borno State to Boko Haram.
The PDP Pr3esidential Campaign Council in a statement on Friday, remarked: “Our attention has been drawn to a video being surreptitiously circulated by the Buhari Media Centre, under a satanic pseudonym, ‘Make Nigeria Worse Again’, in which they falsely accuse the Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, of planning to cede parts of Borno State to Boko Haram in a peace deal.

“This is completely false and only shows the level of dirty politics and fake news the Muhammadu Buhari administration is prepared to engage in in its desperation to cling to power despite its widespread unpopularity.”

The PDP stated that, “For the avoidance of doubt, the only plan that His Excellency Atiku Abubakar has for Boko Haram is the total defeat of the terrorist sect once and for all.” It added: “Atiku Abubakar is not one for ‘technical’ defeats. He has said publicly and privately that if he is elected, both Boko Haram and ISWAP would be wiped off the face of the planet.”

The PDP stated that, indeed, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar has criticised the Buhari administration policy of releasing so-called ‘repentant’ Boko Haram members and tied the resurgence of terrorism in the nation to that ill-advised program.

The party said that under an Atiku Abubakar administration, every terrorist that is caught will be tried in accordance with the provisions of the law. “Atiku Abubakar has zero tolerance for terrorists and has detailed his plan to equip the military to deal decisively with these threats to our national security once and for all,” PDP declared.

The party added that it is worth noting, however, that “this fake news video began circulating soon after Vice President Yemi Osinbajo commissioned the Buhari Media Center on Tuesday, January 8, 2019 in Gwarinpa, Abuja.

“It is very doubtful that this is a coincidence and we call on the public to be wary of such videos and other online propaganda from the Buhari Media Centre to discredit the PDP Presidential candidate.”