Share this on WhatsApp

Vincent Kompany will be remembered by fans throughout football for the way he conducts himself on and off the pitch, according to the Mayor of Manchester Andy Burnham.
The Manchester City captain has thrown his weight behind a campaign to tackle rough sleeping in Manchester. The initiative is being led by Burnham who says the problem is top of his agenda.
Kompany has pledged to donate funds generated during his Testimonial year to the cause and Burnham says it is typical of why the Belgium international is respected throughout the game.
“As Mayor I’ve said I want to make tackling rough sleeping my top priority,” Burnham told Sky Sports News.
“I’ve been working on that quite hard in the last couple of years and we’re beginning to bring the level of rough sleeping down.
“It’s partly because we’ve launched a scheme called “A bed every night” and I think Vincent has been following that and approached my team here and suggested that he might be able to help.
“It is just an amazing thing that he has dedicated his Testimonial year to this whole cause of ending rough sleeping.
“I think it just confirms what many people felt about him. He’s a giant of a man on and off the pitch.
“For me it really differentiates a footballer when they get to this stage of their career and they have the respect not only of their own supporters but supporters throughout the game.
“Vincent Kompany is in that category for the way that he’s conducted himself throughout his career and I think this initiative will only strengthen that respect for him throughout the game.”
Despite being Mayor of Manchester Burnham is a life-long Everton fan who always watches Deadline Day on Sky Sports News.
“I’ll be watching avidly,” he added. “I end up ridiculously clinging onto the very last minute and then a bit after in case there’s a late fax.
“You hope that something goes through just under the wire towards the end.
“I’m a regular watcher right to the very end. I’ve watched it all and live in hope every year that we’ll have a great transfer window.”
Share this on WhatsApp