Share this on WhatsApp

says thieves in Lagos must explain source of wealth.

Leading members of the Peoples’ Democratic Party, including its national chairman, Uche Secondus, Senate President Bukola Saraki and Speaker of the House of Reps, Yakubu Dogara, on Thursday in their speeches at a rally underscored the importance of voting President Buhari and the APC out of power in the next general elections.
The National Chairman who was addressing a mammoth crowd of party supporters in Lafai Square in Nasarawa state on Thursday in continuation of the party’s nationwide campaign said that Nigerians must elect a President they can see, feel, a President that can act like the Peoples’ Democratic Party, PDP flag bearer Atiku Abubakar.
According to him, President Muhammadu Buhari has been hiding in the Villa, challenging him to come out and engage the people with his record of performance if any and stop hiding in the Villa.
He said that while PDP candidates and leaders are engaging the people for votes, President Buhari and APC leaders are hiding in the Villa planning how to rig election.
Prince Secondus said that the President’s wife confirmed that the Presidency under her husband has been hijacked and wondered what other prove we need to show that Nigeria is in a wrong hand.
“Let me reiterate this warning to them including the Independent National Eceltoral Commission, INEC, and security agencies, that any attempt to manipulate the election would be an invitation to a national crisis. If they love this county, they must not attempt to thwart the will of the people because it would be a recipe for crisis.
The National Chairman also made some scorching remarks on some politicians in Lagos who talk about corruption when they are thieves who have milked the state dry.
“Some thieves from Lagos are also talking about corruption, some of them had nothing before they became governor but today they are stinking in stolen wealth and talking of corruption.
Prince Secondus said that APC has already collapsed with some of their state governors talking with the PDP.
He assured the jubilant crowd of mostly youths that PDP candidate Atiku believes in the vibrancy of the youths, and his administration will be for them because they are the future.
“Your gubernatorial candidate Hon. David Ombadugu is a youth and that shows you PDP’s believe in youths, so caste your votes for him and all other PDP candidates.
Share this on WhatsApp