https://gaim.fidelitybank.ng/


Share this on WhatsApp
The All Progressives Congress (APC) has replied the PDP over a statement credited to it that the allegations against Walter Onnoghen, chief justice of Nigeria (CJN), is a move by the APC government to constitute “a constitutional crisis” and “instill fear in judicial officers” to do its bidding.
Recall that the Code of Conduct Bureau had on Saturday in a statement accused the CJN of failing to fully declare his assets before and after he was named CJN in March 2017.
The Code of Conduct Bureau slammed a six-count charge against the revered judge, who will be arraigned on Monday.
But in a statement on Sunday, Lanre Issa-Onilu, APC spokesman, said the fight against corruption remains a cardinal promise made by his party to the electorate.
“Following reports of the move to prosecute Justice Walter Onnoghen, chief justice of the federation, over an alleged infraction on the Code of Conduct laws, the swift statement by the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) condemning the purported move has again exposed the Party as one with a natural inclination to rise up in defence of cases of alleged corruption,” he said.
“Resort to baseless postulations anytime issues of corruption is leveled against public officers only confirm what Nigerians already know. PDP and corruption are siamese twins that are difficult to separate from each other.
“One would have thought that the PDP will call for impartial investigations when corruption cases are levelled against public officers, but spinning falsehoods and conspiracies remains the opposition party’s favourite past time.
“The APC administration will not hesitate to investigate and prosecute any public officer if and when such is indicted for corruption.
“Achieving acceptable elections in all democratic climes is a collective effort which require the contributions and support of all well-meaning Nigerians, political parties, institutions and sundry interests.
“Commendably, in successive elections conducted under the APC administration, the party has played by the rules, which has led to credible elections. This cannot be said of the PDP era when state institutions were deployed to manipulate the electoral process.”
Issa-Onilu said the APC is committed to ensuring that the forthcoming elections go on record as one of the freest, most credible and peaceful elections in the country.

Share this on WhatsApp