Share this on WhatsApp
The Cardiff City captain was only saved by the quick thinking of his wife Stacey and the club’s doctor Len Nokes after he initially refused to seek medical attention for a pain in his stomach.
Thankfully, Stacey insisted calling the medic herself and when Morrison explained how the pain had shifted from the middle of his stomach to the lower right-hand side, Dr Nokes immediately diagnosed the potential for acute appendicitis.
He ordered Stacey to take Morrison, 28, to accident and emergency without delay.
There, the player was rushed straight into surgery where it was discovered Morrison’s appendix had already burst – a life-threatening problem as toxins are released into other parts of the body.
Doctors opened him up to remove his appendix and clean out the damage and after a couple of days’ of intensive antibiotics being administered directly into his vein, he was finally given the all-clear and released home.
However, staff at the hospital warned that if Morrison had arrived just 45 minutes later, they may not have been able to save him.
It will now be at least six weeks before Morrison can resume training as Cardiff battle to avoid the drop.
Cardiff manager Neil Warnock this week deliberately kept the news under wraps because he did not want it to overshadow preparations for today’s relegation six-pointer against Newcastle.
On Tuesday, a club spokesman revealed that Morrison had been in hospital to “undergo a procedure” but refused to elaborate as the player began his recovery.
In the press conference ahead of the game yesterday, Warnock continued to disguise the severity of Morrison’s condition.
He had a procedure on Monday,” he confirmed. “I’ve had the physio on the phone just now.
“I don’t think Morrison will play tomorrow, but if there’s any doubt I won’t play him anyway. We can’t gamble on anyone.”
Appendicitis is most common among 10 to 20-year-olds and affects one in 13 people in the UK at some point during their life
Share this on WhatsApp