Share this on WhatsApp
The All Progressives Congress in Kosofe area of Lagos has stated their
resolve to vote enmasse for President Muhammadu Buhari in the forth
coming election for having fulfilled most of the promises he made to
the people, in his first term bid.
A large number of APC faithful most of whom were cladded in white vest
with bold pictures of Buhari/Osinbajo and APC logo, converged on the
car park of the popular Mile 12 market in the heart of Kosofe, for a
support rally organized by an APC chieftain in Kosofe, Chief (Mrs)
Lucy Omosefe Ajayi the Executive Director of Lagos International Trade
Fair Management Board.
The Arewa community stakeholders in the area, market women and traders
all trouped out to show their support for President Buhari and APC,
describing him as a man who detest corruption and is capable of
restoring Nigeria’s lost glory.
The initiator Madam Lucy Ajayi, while speaking with newsmen, stated
why Buhari’s second term bid will be a smooth one.
“We are here to tell the people of Kosofe to vote APC across board,
that since APC came here three and half years ago to promise them the
dividends of democracy, you have heard from their mouth, you have seen
the people and we are saying that we would do times two of what we
have done so they should come back and vote APC across board for the
2019 elections.
“Seeing is believing ‘Baba is talk nah do’he doesn’t need to talk
much, you have seen all the states he had been to, you don’t need a
soothsayer to tell you that it is a tsunami, you don’t need it even me
the representative, if he doesn’t come here and they put ballot box,
they would all vote PMB, this crowd are not rented they are voluntary,
they are volunteers, they voluntarily came, I do not have money to
bring crowd but you can see them all over and to tell you they all
have their PVCs.
Speaking on why the rally was organized in the market square, Lucy
painted an historic link of a strong bond with the Mile 12 people.
“Kosofe is a Federal Local Government, where I was a party chairman
for CPC, so I use here Mile 12, because they have the crowd and space
to accommodate us all, those you see here are from various local
governments Ojo,Alaba,Apapa, Amuwo Odofin and more, the market people
are very reliable, another local government, I have taken over for APC
is Amuwo Odofin, you can see no sign of PDP there, come to the
International Trade Fair you can see for yourself.
“I have influenced the revenue drive target to the tune of 1billion
naira not up to a year of heading the management board there, an
unprecedented feat at the International Trade Fair all thanks to
President Buhari’s intolerance for sharp practices, through Treasury
Single Account (TSA), with Buhari Nigeria is on a speedy recovery path
to restoration of lost glory.
“You have gotten Tradermoni here is that not an improvement? Some of
the people considering where they were years back, go and see them now
they are the ones giving testimonies, the first lady have reeled out
programmes for the women and girl child which is a bold step on her
part.
Another APC chieftain in the area,Alhaji Muhammadu Dandama Yabo, the
chairman Arewa community Lagos State while commenting on the
importance of the rally, noted that President Muhammadu Buhari’s
achievement is unmatched by previous government, owing to his
doggedness and untainted integrity.
“ Buhari makes promises and follow it through, we are sure he will be
voted in again because of his passion to grow a genuine Nigeria, we
all can be proud of, he is all out against stealing of our common good
and this is assuring enough for us that if he should be re –elected,
our country will fare better”. Dandama said.
Comrade Moses Samson Adewale the Lagos State NANS Chairman and Acting
Coordinator of APC Student Movement, who also spoke with newsmen at
the gathering stated the need for youths to take decisive action in
evolving a political system that works and capable of guaranteeing
them a sane future.
“We are here in Solidarism with our mother, Madam Lucy Ajayi who has
done a lot in harnessing and supporting Nigerian youths and student at
large, in this effort geared towards pushing Nigeria to the next
level, Nigeria has been suffering from corruption issues, which forms
PMB’s cardinal agenda, he is trying to address it.
“Though in the education sector we feel there is still much he can do,
but without cooperation and enough support we will still have to
grapple with the problem for long, we should all give him support and
let’s take our education to the next level.
He also lamented that the strike action embarked upon by the Academic
Staff Union of Universities will hamper the students from taking
active part in the electoral process if it persist.
“Even the strike is affecting the Nigeria student and it is going to
affect the coming election in that most of our student are registered
in our campuses and if the government and the ASUU leadership do not
reach a meaningful agreement, automatically they will be
disenfranchising the Nigerian student at large, so therefore there is
a need for them to call of the strike as soon as possible.
“We cannot leave our future in the hands of the old ones, because they
would just continue to drain and train our future to whatever part
they feel is ideal, so therefore we appeal to Nigerian students and
youths to make sure they come out enmasse and make sure we participate
fully to ensure the change in the political future we all clamour for.

Share this on WhatsApp