Share this on WhatsApp
Nigeria’s former Finance Minister and ex Vice President of the World Bank, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, says she’s ready to assume the number one position of the Bretton Woods institution.

Mr. Jim Yong Kim, who was reappointed World Bank President for a five-year term on July 1, 2017, has announced that he will be stepping down from the role on February 1, 2019, and Okonjo-Iweala says she’s ready to succeed him.

“If the right person were to nominate, and if the circumstances are right and people feel I can do the job, yes”, Okonjo-Iweala told CNN’s Richard Quest on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, when the question regarding her readiness for the job was posed.

Okonjo-Iweala contested the World Bank President position in 2012 and she believes a second try won’t be bad after all.

 “I know that, because I contested the last time in 2012, and many people were asking that question. It is a shareholder’s decision and they have to decide how they want it. Someone has to nominate,” she said.

When Quest asked if she has declared her candidacy, Okonjo-Iweala said; “No, I have not declared my candidacy. You asked a hypothetical question and I answered it fairly. I’m very happy right now, and I just want you to know that I’m enjoying life for a change for a portfolio of what I like.”

Okonjo-Iweala currently sits on the Boards of Standard Chartered Bank, Twitter, Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) and the African Risk Capacity.

Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala served as Minister in the administrations of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan.

She was Minister of Finance under Obasanjo from July 15, 2003 to June 21, 2006.
Okonjo-Iweala also had a brief spell as Foreign Affairs Minister under Obasanjo from June 21, 2006 to August 30, 2006.

She is credited with achieving debt forgiveness for Nigeria under Obasanjo.

Okonjo-Iweala returned as Finance Minister and Coordinating Minister of the Economy under Jonathan, a position she held from August 17, 2011 to May 29, 2015.
Share this on WhatsApp