Share this on WhatsApp
Presidential candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party, (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has described as cock and bull story, the allegation that he has a case to answer over the collapse of Platinum Habib Bank, Bank PHB.

In a statement released on Friday by his special assistant on public communication, Phrank Shaibu, Atiku challenged the federal government to either prove his alleged corrupt activities, or forever remain quiet.

“They just suddenly woke up to the reality that, their lies about Atiku being corrupt can no longer hold? I challenge the federal government to come up with evidence that I benefitted from N156 million slush funds through Claremont Management Services Account on 13th January, 2009 as well as the collapse of Bank PHB as they have alleged.

“It is instructive to note that, the same BankPHB is now Keystone bank which was said to have been acquired by Buhari’s cronies through AMCON last year.”

He said Nigerians had already made up their minds to send Buhari packing on February 16, 2019 and there is nothing the ruling party can do about it.

“Tell them that their days of deceit are numbered. Nigerians are tired of them and they can no longer lie or take the people for a ride anymore,” the statement said.

Atiku said it was a mark of the idleness of the folks in charge of the APC that they resorted to lobby the US to deny him visa, when they should be busy strategising on how to save their party from an imminent defeat.

“There is no need to worry, as we shall unveil on Sunday, January 20, 2019 “Buhari’s Hall Of Shame”. It’s a scorecard of failure, incompetence, nepotism and a President’s proclivity to harbouring indicted and other famed thieves of our patrimony. Date and venue shall be made public in due course.

”Never in the history of Nigeria have the people being subjected to the kind of unemployment level that the country is now witnessing under the All Progressives Congress (APC). It is indeed a double tragedy that a government that cannot even provide for the people is also unable to ensure their security. Having failed woefully, it is time for the Buhari led administration and APC governments at all levels to be kicked out through the forthcoming general elections.”

He also asked the federal government to bury its head in shame having failed to stop him from travelling to the US.

He said it was shameful that the governing APC took it upon itself to call on the authorities of another country not to grant a private citizen entry visa, which ordinarily should not be its business.

Atiku who arrived in the US on Thursday said the APC was jittery knowing that its government has failed.



Share this on WhatsApp