Share this on WhatsApp

offenders to face sanction

By Chioma Obinagwam

The United States (U.S) and United Kingdom (U.K) governments have said it would sanction perpetrators of election-related violence as well as activities that would undermine the democratic process of the Nigeria.

This was conveyed in a statement issued by the U.S Embassy in Abuja.

“We, and other democratic nations, will be paying close attention to actions of individuals who interfere in the democratic process or instigate violence against the civilian population before, during, or after the elections,” the statement indicated.

“We will not hesitate to consider consequences – including visa restrictions – for those found to be responsible for election-related violence or undermining the democratic process.  Under U.S. immigration law, certain violations may also lead to restrictions on family members,” it continued.

The U.S further emphasized that it is more interested in the democratic process than in the candidates or political parties.

“The United States government does not support any specific candidate or party in Nigeria’s upcoming elections.  The United States supports the Nigerian democratic process itself.  We support a genuinely free, fair, transparent, and peaceful electoral process,” the statement noted.

Corroborating, the U.K. government reiterated its commitment to a free and fair elections.

“…the British High Commission in Abuja would like to reaffirm our strong support for free, fair and peaceful elections in Nigeria.

“We continue to provide significant support to Nigeria’s Independent National Electoral Commission and to Nigerian civil society to help them deliver credible elections.  We also regularly engage with actors across the political spectrum to encourage them to respect electoral rules and maintain an atmosphere of peace and calm.  We will be deploying an extensive observation mission for the forthcoming elections, including coordinating with the EU’s Election Observation Mission.

“Our monitors will in particular be looking out for any attempts to encourage or use violence to influence the elections, including on social media. We would like to remind all Nigerians that where the UK is aware of such attempts, this may have consequences for individuals.  These could include their eligibility to travel to the UK, their ability to access UK based funds or lead to prosecution under international law,” the U K government disclosed.

Share this on WhatsApp