Share this on WhatsApp

To be questioned when he returns from U.S. – Lai Mohammed

President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC)-controlled Federal Government of Nigeria have initiated a fresh plot against the former Vice President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar, currently on visit to the United States of America,
Accordingly, the Federal Government has threatened that Atiku Abubakar, has questions to answer when he returns from his current trip to the United States, US.
The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, briefing State House correspondents in Abuja on Friday, said that the Federal Government is investigating Atiku Abubakar’s alleged role in the collapse of former Bank PHB.
The Information Minister said the decision to question Atiku Abubakar is “following fresh evidence that he benefitted from slush funds that led to the collapse of Bank PHB.”
Lai Mohammed said the government has in its position “paper trail which shows that he benefitted from N156 million.
“It started from an internal memo dated 13 January 2009 asking that a draft in favour of Atiku Abubakar of 156 million should be raised.”
He said that another memo on the same date was raised to confirm that the amount was raised from a “claimant management account.”
He said the government has proof of the account mandate, cheque and account statement showing Atiku as the signatory to the account that received the money.
“We want him to stay in the US for as long as he wants but he has to explain to Nigerians when he returns,” Lai Mohammed said.
The Minister protested Atiku’s visit to the U.S., saying that the government had earlier issued a statement advising the U.S. not to issue him a visa.
He, however, admitted that it remains the prerogative of the U.S. government to issue visa to anyone
“We are not perturbed one bit. He can go ahead and get a U.S. green card. That will not save him from imminent defeat in the forthcoming election,” Lai Mohammed said; adding that the “election will be held here not in the U.S.”
Lai Mohammed, however, noted that questioning Atiku on his return from US does not imply that he will be arrested.
Share this on WhatsApp