Share this on WhatsApp






Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State has not been in the news for good since the preparations for the 2019 general elections. Many stakeholders in the state are worried that the governor had chosen to support President Muhammadu Buhari and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), in place of the son-of-the-soil, Peter Obi, who is the vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Though, Obiano has history of political dispute with Obi even into the governorship election in Anambra where Obi supported another candidate against Obiano. However, many thought that having got his victory, and with what is at stake in the South East, Obiano would have shield his sword and remember the good old days when Obi made him governor in the first instance before the impasse.
Meanwhile, the Commissioner for Information in Anambra State, C Don Adinuba, attempted defending Governor Obiano on the controversial relationship with President Buhari, which has been generating caustic criticism from the PDP.
Adinuba, while acknowledging the tendency of the criticisms against the governor towards 2019 general elections, remarked that the state government, however, has a responsibility to explain the true situation to the people of Anambra State who are supremely in support of both Governor Obiano and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA).
Adinuba noted that Governor Obiano is not an extremist but a good believer in constructive engagement; thus, engages constructively with the Federal Government. 
The commissioner said that federal establishments like the police force, army, navy and National Security and Civil Defence Corps have been very helpful in making Anambra the safest state in Nigeria; adding that Obiano as a perfect example of practitioners of what social science scholars call cooperative federalism, as opposed to adversarial federalism.
The commissioner further said that Obiano also engages constructively with members of the so-called opposition in Anambra State like Senator Ben Obi, Senator Andy Uba, Senator Uche Ekwunife, Mrs. Josephine Anenih, Chief Godwin Ezeeimo, etc, top members of other parties.
Adinuba stated “Governor Obiano, in addition, engages constructively with the non-partisans like Mr. Cosmas Maduka of the Coscharis Group. The result is the massive investment flow into the state running into billions of dollars.”
The commissioner stated that Obiano’s advanced and sophisticated approach in his relationships with critical institutions and forces around Nigeria reflect what he calls development diplomacy. This strategy  means that what matters to him is what will lift the state’s development level and benefit Ndi Anambra, rather than pandering to schoolboy-like expectations. ‘This development strategy has worked most effectively in the transformation of Southeast nations and territories like Singapore, Malaysia, South Korea, Thailand, Taiwan and Malaysia. It has been adopted by Ethiopia, and the Horn of Africa nation has become Africa’s fastest growing economy” Adinuba narrated.
The commissioner complained of the confrontational approach of some politicians seeking relevance or recognition in the society. He stated that Anambra is in a hurry to develop, and so doesn’t need unnecessary fights which are by their nature destructive.














Share this on WhatsApp