Share this on WhatsApp
Presidential candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has listed the many sins of President Muhammadu Buhari, appealing to international community to put pressure on Buhari to desist from “violating the constitution”.

In the letter addressed to ambassadors of France, Germany, United States and the United Kingdom high commissioner, Atiku accused the president of threatening the nation’s democracy.

Atiku said with the Buhari-led administration supervising the forthcoming general elections, he feel the urgent need to share some of the key violations of the provisions of Nigeria’s constitution and to demand that the international community pile pressure on the Federal Government to desist from these violations and ensure a level playing field for the elections.

 He listed some of the infractions to include suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, describing the action as the latest in a series of carefully planned onslaught on the nation’s democracy by “an extremely power hungry and anxious president and the cabal that feeds fat around him.

Atiku also accused the president of purchasing Tucano Aircrafts for the Nigerian Military at the sum of $496 million, without seeking prior approval of the national assembly.

He said Buhari violated section 80 (3) and (4) of the 1999 constitution (as amended) which states how the president can spend monies belonging to the federation.

Abubakar said the Buhari-led administration has “serially violated” court orders, going against the rule of law especially in three known cases.

He cited the cases of Sambo Dasuki, former national security adviser (NSA), Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, leader of the Members of the Islamic Movement (IMN) as examples of such infractions.

He noted that Dasuki had been granted bail “on at least six different occasions” while the Buhari-led government “persistently refused to comply with the court orders.

The PDP candidate also said the enactment of the Presidential Executive Order No. 006 as an executive legislation which permits security agencies to freeze the assets of persons standing trial or undergoing investigation is a trespass on legislative and judicial powers of the national assembly.

He said the choices facing everyone is either to stand aside and watch Nigerians reelect a President who has been in constant violation of the laws of the land without remorse; or to show him the way out and elect a true democrat.

Share this on WhatsApp