Share this on WhatsApp




Presidential candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, says President Muhammadu Buhari’s excuse for not investigating the bribery allegations against Kano state governor, Abdullahi Ganduje is untenable.
 
Recall that while speaking during a town hall meeting on Wednesday, Buhari said he decided not to take any action about the issue because the state assembly has the mandate to deal with it.
 
Buhari who confirmed watching the video clips, said he hope to get more firsthand information about the scandal when he visit the state for his reelection campaign.
 
However, in a statement on Thursday, Atiku accused Buhari of defending his inaction regarding the alleged bribery case.
 
He said he found the “excuse” untenable because “the President has not shown this level of restraint when condemning the alleged corruption of others who happen not to be members of his party, the APC.”
 
“We find this excuse untenable because the President has not shown this level of restraint when condemning the alleged corruption of others who happen not to be members of his party, the APC,” he said in the statement which Paul Ibe issued on his behalf.
 
“On many occasions, President Buhari has pre-judicially commented on the cases of non-APC members and even acted as judge and jury by convicting them with his utterances in Nigeria and abroad.
 
“This partiality of the President is most disturbing, as it is proof positive that he is fighting the opposition and not corruption.”
 
He also tackled the president for “defending” Babachir Lawal, sacked secretary to the government of the federation
 
“Even further damaging was the President’s defence of another of his cronies, Babachir Lawal, whom he said cannot be charged because of a lack of evidence. We are embarrassed for the President that he could make such a public faux pas,” he said.
 
Atiku said Lawal “was caught red-handed” as “monies meant for Internally Displaced Persons were traced to his bank accounts after he awarded his company an inflated contract.”
 
“We are thus nonplussed by the President’s comments requesting for evidence before he can move against Mr. Lawal,” he said, adding: “The question is this: does being members of the All Progressive Congress confer the President’s cronies with immunity for their crimes?”



Share this on WhatsApp