Share this on WhatsApp
The Peoples’ Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Organization (PPCO), says the involvement of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu in the re-election bid of President Muhammadu Buhari is not motivated by any national or even regional interests but by personal reasons far from the general good.

The party alleged that Tinubu accepted to lead President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election campaign following purported threats by agents of the Buhari Presidency to expose and prosecute him for corruption allegations, and not because he believes in the propriety of President Buhari’s re-election.

In a statement Wednesday night, Director, Media and PublicityPDP Presidential Campaign Organization, Kola Ologbondiyan, said: “It is very unfortunate that at the time Nigerians, across the board, are boldly jettisoning their personal interests and joining in the quest to rescue our nation from President Buhari’s incompetent, corrupt, divisive and anti-people regime, a leader of Asiwaju’s status is chasing personal interests and self-preservation.

“Nigerians can recall how Asiwaju in January 2018, at the 15th Annual Daily Trust Dialogue rejected the Buhari administration’s nepotism, incompetence, corrupt oil subsidy regime; blamed it for the high-level of poverty in our country and urged Nigerians to be guided by their conscience in electing leaders in the 2019 general elections.

“He then concluded by urging Nigerians to follow their conscience in the 2019 elections by resisting ‘unthinking passions and old prejudices’, which is the hallmark of President Buhari’s re-election campaign.”

The party then said, “The question Nigerians are asking now is, what has suddenly changed in President Buhari’s leadership style to warrant Asiwaju’s full circle turn.

“While we understand the frustration being faced by Asiwaju in this unfortunate task of marketing a rejected product, we caution him to be careful not to allow the ill-fated Buhari Presidency to destroy whatever is left of the respect he has earned among Nigerians, who have already made up their minds to rally behind the PDP Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, as the next President of Nigeria.

“We therefore counsel Asiwaju to be mindful of his status in the pantheon of leaders and note that he is not with Nigerians in his new enterprise, for which he now needs to clear his name over alleged involvement in the anti-people cabal at the Buhari Presidency.

“We also want to caution Tinubu on his penchant for making unsubstantiated allegations against our candidate, Atiku Abubakar.”

The PPCO added that Tinubu has no moral rectitude to make allegations against Atiku.

Share this on WhatsApp