https://gaim.fidelitybank.ng/


Share this on WhatsApp




Imo Gov. Rochas Okorochas’ Action Alliance (AA) has adopted PDP presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar for the February 16 election.
“We are for Atiku/Obi leadership and we are glad to work with all believers of true federalism and efficient administration of governance at all levels to accomplish this as we approach the forthcoming elections,”   party’s national Chairman Kenneth Udeze disclosed this at a press conference in Abuja on Monday.
The party was founded 14 years ago when Okorocha contested for presidency.
The  National Executives Committee (NEC) of the old party said they are on the same page concerning our support for Atiku, same with all our state chapters in this matter.
“We hereby restate out position through this medium that AA as a certified and active member of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) have not for a moment reconsidered or wished to alter that position.
“For your information, AA moved the motion for the adoption of Atiku as the Presidential Candidate of CUPP, and we are on it to the end,” Udeze said.
According to Udeze, the support for Abubakar and his running mate, Peter Obi, was a support for the growth of the country’s democracy and the required restructuring of the country.
Okorocha and his current party APC have grown apart since he was blocked from installing his son-in-law Uche Nwosu as his successor.
While he remains in the APC and still claims loyalty to President Muhammadu Buhari, the governor’s loyalists have moved to the AA where they initially said they would vote for Nwosu and Buhari.
But the rift between the governor and the APC national executive led by Adams Oshiomhole has been widening since Sen. Hope Uzodinma emerged the party’s candidate.
At the APC’s South East women and youth rally in Owerri on Saturday, the Okorocha camp clashed with the First Lady, Aisha Buhari, over the party’s guber candidate.
The first lady,, represented by Dolapo Osinbajo, wife of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, canvassed support for the APC candidate, Hope Uzodinma, and other candidates of the party in the general elections.
“A vote for Buhari is a vote for progress. APC has done well and we must all support all APC candidates,” the first lady said.
Okorocha, however, stood up later, and vowed that nothing would stop Mr Nwosu from succeeding him as governor, come May 29.
“Let me say this Madam First Lady, this time around we are not here to ask you to campaign for Buhari. What my wife has done is to tell you that Buhari is on ground,’ he told Mrs Osinbajo.
“Imo victory for Buhari is designed, sealed. In Imo State, we have 47 political parties and one of the perfect alliances is Action Alliance led by Uche Nwosu.
“Nwosu is APC in spirit. APC owes Imo an apology because of the injustice meted to Imo people. In Imo State, Nwosu will win Imo State. It is not anti-party. We refused imposition in Imo State,” he said.





Share this on WhatsApp