Share this on WhatsApp

says suspension a coup against Nigeria


The Midwest Movement has strongly condemned the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria,  Walter Onnoghen, by President Muhammad Buhari on Friday, demanding that he be reinstated to avoid a constitutional crisis.

In a statement signed by the group’s convener, Dr. Pedro Obaseki, the group described the suspension of the chief judicial officer of the country by the president as a coup against the Nigerian constitution.


“The reasons given by President Muhammadu Buhari for taking these weighty and clearly unconstitutional steps are as flawed as they are an embarrassment to the entire Nigeria nation and Midwest Region of Edo and Delta States in particular.”

According to Dr. Obaseki,  the provision of the Constitution is very explicit on the processes for removing and replacing the Chief Justice of Nigeria. “The relevant provision is section 292 (1) (a) (i), which prescribes that the CJN, can only be removed by the “President acting on an address supported by two/thirds majority of the Senate.”

He said the Constitution does not empower the President to suspend the CJN as the judiciary is a co-equal branch of government, stressing that the CJN is not a subordinate to the president.

“By the separation of powers, checks and balances enshrined in the Constitution, *the CJN cannot be disciplined unilaterally by the President under any guise whatsoever!”


Dr. Obaseki said while the Midwest Movement, as most Nigerians, support the crusade against corruption, the group will not support any so-called anti-corruption crusade which amounts to abuse of power.

“The country cannot afford the catastrophic consequences of undermining due process of law as the President has exhibited.”

“The Midwest Movement therefore aligns with all those who have condemned this presidential act of brazen lawlessness and call on the National Assembly to react appropriately.

“On our part, we call on the good people of Edo and Delta States to brace up for the titanic battle to rescue Nigeria from the hands of lawless people in power whoever they may be. We assure that no matter how hard lawless people will try, theirs is a lost cause from the very beginning.

Nigeria shall survive them. It has always done so for many years; and with the people coming together and insisting on the rule of law and it’s due processes, the country shall pull through this renewed assault against the rule of law and shall emerge even more strengthened,” he said.
 
Share this on WhatsApp