Share this on WhatsApp

Challenges INEC on Free, fair elections in 2019

Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State on Monday challenged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies to ensure free, fair and transparent elections in 2019.
Governor Okowa, receiving the management of Silverbird Communications led by its Chairman, Editorial Board, Mr Jacob Akinyemi-Johnson, on a working visiton Monday in Asaba, noted that the INEC and security operatives need to convince Nigerians of their neutrality in the administration of the 2019 general elections.
The Silverbird Management was at the Government House to present a letter of nomination to Okowa as the 2018 Silverbird Man of the Year Award.
Okowa remarked that the award would spur the people of Delta State to work in unity and achieve more developmental successes.
“Nigerians expect that we will have free and fair general elections in February and March 2019.
“The security agencies and INEC are expected to abide by the rules so that we can have a country where democracy can grow, and also a country that can take its rightful place among the comity of nations.
“The world looks up to us to get it right. I receive this award with gratitude as it will encourage us to do more for our people.
“In the last three years, we have had our challenges, but we have been able to manage ourselves, united as Deltans; we have connected with our people through roads, education and health.
“Our people are happy with us and we are happy with them,’’ Okowa declared.
The governor commended the Silverbird Management for the painstaking award process, saying that the award would encourage people to understand that working together would guarantee more successes and achievements.
Akinyemi-Johnson had earlier congratulated the governor at the presentation of the nomination letter for emerging the “Silverbird Man of the Year Award”.
He said that Okowa was voted for overwhelmingly by the public among the four nominees.
Akinyemi-Johnson said that the award would be formally presented to the governor in sometimes in February in Lagos.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment