Borno Gov. Kashim Shettima teared up  on Monday before President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja as he related the recent atrocities of Boko Haram in the northeastern state.
He, along with other Borno elders that went with him to meet Buhari in the villa, urged the President to do all he could to stop the terrorists.
The governor reminded Buhari of some resolutions reached at an extraordinary security meeting held in Borno State a week ago and the need to urgently implement them.
“Between 2013 and 2014, we witnessed the most daring and most vicious evil of the Boko Haram, losing 20 local government areas,” said in tears.
“However, we rushed here because of the recent upsurge in the activities of the demented monster called Boko Haram, especially in Borno North Senatorial District. We are here because since 2015, Mr President, you have been able to restore our hope.
“Sir, you have demonstrated empathy for Borno and the overriding commitment to ending the Boko Haram. This is why we rushed here on witnessing some setbacks.
“We are here because we thought that Allah will use you to fully reclaim Borno traditional glory of being the home of peace. We are here as a people who worked, prayed and waited for your Presidency in the firm belief that with you as the Commander-in-Chief, Boko Haram will become history in Borno.
“Mr President, we have not, and Insha Allah, we will not lose hope in you because we have witnessed and survived worse moments before you came. We do not feel hopeless.  Our hopes are very much alive and they are very high.
“We came with some observations and 10 requests for urgent presidential intervention. These observations and requests are products of discussion in the aftermath of our extraordinary security meeting held one week ago.
“We didn’t rush to come after the meeting. We felt the need to travel to northern Borno, interact with displaced persons and the military so as to strengthen public confidence.
“I will seek the understanding of journalists by not making public any of our observations and 10 requests.
“They are matters of security which we hope to discuss with Mr President behind closed-door.”
Journalists were asked to leave the venue as the passion play by Borno No. 1 citizen dragged on.
A statement a presidential aide after the meeting stated that Buhari reassured Shettima that his administration would strengthen the Nigerian military to neutralise the insurgents in the north-East.
Others at the meeting were the National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (retd.); who is also from Borno State; Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin; acting Director General of the National Intelligence Agency, Ahmed Abubakar; and the Director General of the Department for State Services, Mr Yussuf Bitchi.

			
			Post Views: 
			33