Share this on WhatsApp

The Human and Environmental Development Agenda Resource Centre (HEDA), a non-governmental in Lagos, has petitioned the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), demanding investigation of the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola, over allegation of diversion of $600 million fund allocated for the 3050 megawatts, MW, Mambilla Hydro Power Project.
Citing a leaked letter to SaharaReproter on January 11, 2019, titled “Fashola Wants to Divert $600m from the 3050MW Hydro power Project to His Pet Project” by Leno Adesanya”, HEDA argued that the letter from Adesanya cannot be waved aside. 
In the petition signed by HEDA’s Chairman, Olanrewaju Suraju, the Resource Centre noted that the allegation of diversion against the Minister is grave and should be treated with all sense of importance, especially, being a public office holder whom utmost integrity, accountability and responsibility is expected.
HEDA in the petition declared: “It was reported in the publication, vide the letter written by Mr. Leno Adesanya to Babatunde Raji Fashola, alleging that the Minister for Power, Works and Housing is covering realities about loan negotiations between China Exim Bank and the Federal Government in connection to the 3050MW Mambilla hydropower project which dates back to 2017.
“The reported letter stated the Minister refused to put the Mambilla Project on the Bilateral Discussion Agenda to President Muhammadu Buhari in April, 2016 when he visited China. Leno Laitan claimed in the letter that he appealed to Governors Nasiru El Rufai and Alhaji Mohammed Badaru Abubakar and the Minister for Agriculture, Chief Audu Ogbe, who went with His Excellency to China to make the Mambilla Project a priority.”
The further narrated: “Leno Adesanya also alleged that on the 30th of June, 2015, President Muhammadu Buhari personally instructed him to report any act of corruption that may want to delay the accomplishment of the Mambilla project. 
“He also alleged that he wrote a letter on the 16thAugust, 2017 to His Excellency questioning the treacherous attempt of the Minister of Power, Works and Housing to get the Federal Executive Council (FEC) to approve a multi-billion Solar Power project without the necessary feasibility studies, EIA (Environmental Impact Assessment) report, budget approval by the National Assembly which in turn resulted in no Due Process Certificate.”
HEDA also alleged that Adesanya further disclosed that the Minister misled the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, in a memo dated 22ndof May, 2017 to remove Sunrise Power and Transmission Company Limited from the project. The petitioner added that it was stated in the report that the 3050MW power project, when and if accomplished should power thousands of industries in the northern part of the country and generate at least five million direct and indirect jobs, hence, boosting the economy of the country.
HEDA subsequently declared: “The position occupied by the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola, being a public office is one that calls for utmost integrity, accountability and responsibility. 
“Hence, based on the above conveyed report, we believe this allegation of diversion is grave and should be treated with all sense of importance and in turn, we, hereby, demand for an immediate and urgent investigation of the said diversion of $600 million from funds planned for the 3050MW Mambilla Hydro power Project by the Minister, Babatunde Raji Fashola SAN, which alleged that he wants to divert to a multi-billion dollar Solar project that has not gone through the due process to be implemented.”
HEDA protested: “We as an organization relentless on seeing transparency and accountability actualized, owing to this backdrop, we hereby appeal that you use your good office to ensure that this matter is properly, effectively and painstakingly investigated with a view to ensuring that due process is followed in the actualization of the said project. 
“Names were mentioned and letters referenced to support some of the assertions made in the petition and are capable of assisting your commission in the thorough investigation of the allegations, beyond the banter between Adesanya and Fashola (SAN).”
Share this on WhatsApp