Share this on WhatsApp




The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has raised concerns over President Muhammadu Buhari’s mental fitness following his alleged embarrassing mistake at the All Progressives Congress (APC) campaign rally in Warri, Delta State on Thursday.
 
Buhari was said to have at that event committed faux pas while presenting a flag to Chief Great Ogboru, the governorship candidate of the APC in Delta.
 
Presenting a flag to Ogboru, Buhari was reported to have said he was presenting the flag to the presidential candidate of the party. Even after he was supposedly corrected, Buhari it was learnt still referred to Ogboru as senatorial candidate and then ‘governortorial’ candidate.
 
In a statement by its spokesperson, Ikenga Ugochinyere, CUPP said: “The CUPP has raised yet another concern over the physical and mental fitness of President Muhammadu Buhari who is seeking second term in office on the platform of the ruling APC party.
 
“Events in the last few days have turned out to be very clear signals that all may not be well with our President in terms of his fitness to continue in office.
 
According to CUPP, the President’s lackluster performance at a town Hall Meeting tagged ‘The Candidate’ could best be described as a national calamity, an embarrassment and one which made Nigerians the butt of jokes and jabs globally.
 
“The President clearly showed every sign of lack of comprehension of even the simplest questions while the Vice President was frantically making effort to interject and come to his aid. How can a man who cannot comprehend a problem be the one being put forward to solve those problems?
 
 
“In less than 24hours after the President showed signs of physical frailties in Lokoja, Kogi State where he almost collapsed on the podium, he yet again in another faux pas while presenting a flag to Chief Great Ogboru in Delta State declared that he was presenting the flag to the Presidential candidate of the Party.
 
“We have got it on good authority that the APC have resolved that President Muhammadu Buhari will not be attending the Presidential Candidates Debate, organized by the Broadcasting Organization of Nigeria and scheduled to hold on Saturday, 19th January, 2019.
 
“They insist that such appearance by the President will eventually unveil all they have been hiding from the citizens about the lack of capacity, comprehension and understanding of the basic issues by the President.
 
“Nigerians should insist that the President must attend the debate and voice out now that if he fails to attend, the race should be over.
 
“This insistence should be clear and unequivocal as we continue to wonder whose interest it will be serving to put a man through the torture of campaigns when it is clear that he is not up to it.
 
“We call on all well-meaning Nigerians to rise up now and begin to speak up and join in making this demand as a motley crowd of sycophants are manipulating institutions of state to foist an obviously unfit President on the nation to enable them hold onto power and continue their unbridled looting of our treasury.”



Share this on WhatsApp