At the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Glass House in Abuja, it doesn’t rain, it pours as more scandals continue to make the headlines every passing day.

The latest is coming from the former captain and defender of Flash Flamingo of Benin and President of the National Association of Nigerian Footballers (NANF), Harrison Jalla, who has petitioned the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, and the World football governing body FIFA on the large scale money laundering case against the Pinnick Amaju-led board.

Jalla has exposed embattled NFF President, Pinnick, for laundering the proceeds of the 2014 World Cup funds. Jalla disclosed: “In the course of a three-page 76 items fictitious and bogus retirement to FIFA on how the 2014 World Cup FIFA grant to Nigeria through Zenith Bank USD account number 5070407455 was spent.

“Amaju Pinnick on item 40 and 41 on the retirement list claimed that on the 12th March 2015 he remitted to JER TRADE CONSULTING through BSI BANK account number 14655888 the sum of 240,000 USD as part payment for the International Friendly match against Bolivia in item number 40 on the List. “Another remittance of 310,000 USD was made same day through same account number to JER TRADE CONSULTING for same International friendly match against Bolivia.

“NANF investigation has unveiled JER TRADE CONSULTING as a SHELL company registered in PANAMA for the sole purpose of laundering stolen funds from Third World countries. JER TRADE CONSULTING is a conduit pipe for Amaju Pinnick and his gang to siphon NFF funds.

“No time in the History of Nigerian football have we ever played against Bolivia either at the Under 17 to the Super Eagles including the falconets and falcons. Those funds were diverted by Amaju Pinnick and his Gang. Nigerians should wait for more chilling revelations on these series of financial crimes.”

The NANF president said that top NFF officials will be invited this week by Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC to clear their names on fresh alleged corruption and fraud perpetrated by the nation’s football governing officials in the last five years. Jalla added that evidence has been submitted to the anti-graft body adding that invitation will be extended to the officials.

The Union president added that in a deliberate attempt to sanitise Nigerian football, the body has also submitted three bundles of complaints before FIFA Independent Adjudicatory Chambers.

The statement reads in parts; “That what is currently trending on NFF corruption is a tip of the iceberg, more chilling and revelations will be coming out this week.”

The Union also warned FIFA President, Gianni Infantino and Secretary, Fatima Samoura to desist from from shielding NFF bigwigs from facing justice in Nigeria.

“Let me assure Nigerians that any attempt by FIFA President, Gianni Infantino and Secretary, Fatima Samoura to shield and protect, Amaju Pinnick, he himself (Gianni Infantino and Fatima Samoura) will be consumed by the fire.”
“NANF as an apostle of good governance in Nigeria football made a through research and detailed investigation on the Nigeria Football Federation, NFF, submitted petitions and evidence to anti-graft agencies as well as world football governing body

			
			Post Views: 
			62