Share this on WhatsApp

First Vice President of the Nigeria Football Federation, Barrister Seyi Akinwumi has made a clarion call on football stakeholders and enthusiasts to show greater interest in and strive to participate in the ongoing electoral processes in the local councils and Football Associations of the 36 States.


National Daily gathered that the respected legal practitioner with over 30 years in the bar said the realm is open for those who believe they possess great ideas on how to run the game to be involved in administration at local and State levels.

“Our dear country, Nigeria is blessed with multitudes who possess great ideas and ideals about how to run the game of football. These include the current FA Chairmen who I must say I am very proud of in the way they carry out the tenets of Association Football. The Councils and State Football election process is on now and the opportunity is there for everyone to get involved. It would be a dis-service to the system and to the game itself for people who have worthy and brilliant ideas to stay aloof.

“It is not rocket science. The guidelines are available at the offices of each State FA. People should go there, look at the guidelines and if they meet the requirements, vie for offices. It is from the local councils and State levels that people come to the national body, which is the Nigeria Football Federation.”

Akinwunmi, who is also the Chairman of the Lagos State Football Association and Member of the CAF Committee on Youth Competitions, said those who possess ideas on how to grow the game but refuses to be part of the electoral processes are not doing Nigerian Football any good.

“As Chairman of the Lagos State Football Association, who is also interested in contesting, I have been encouraging those who have much to offer to be part of the processes from the grassroots level, and then come to the State level and vie for positions in the Executive Committee.

“Some persons do not realize that they can actually effect changes by being part of the processes. It is not enough to stand aside and simply criticize the system. Get involved and try to get inside, and then float your ideas in a robust manner for everyone to see and take on board.”

Electoral processes are ongoing into the local football councils and Football Associations in the 36 States and the Federal Capital Territory, with most of the States having already announced dates for their respective Elective Congresses.

TIMETABLE FOR STATE FA ELECTIONS

. Rivers State: Wednesday, 30th January 2019

. Kano State: Friday, 8th February 2019

. Niger State & Ekiti State: Saturday, 9th February 2019

. FCT: Monday, 11th February 2019

. Kebbi State: Tuesday, 12th February 2019

. Benue State, Zamfara State & Plateau State: Wednesday, 13th Feb. 2019

. Kwara State: Thursday, 14th February 2019

. Nasarawa State: Friday, 15th February 2019

. Bauchi State. Kaduna State & Kogi State: Tuesday, 19th February 2019

. Gombe State & Osun State: Wednesday, 20th February 2019

. Imo State & Taraba State: Thursday, 21st February 2019

. Enugu State: Friday, 22nd February 2019

. Yobe State: Saturday, 23rd February 2019

. Ebonyi State: Tuesday, 26th February 2019

Share this on WhatsApp