Share this on WhatsApp

Former President Olusegun Obasanjo at his press conference on Sunday on the State of the Nation – Points for Concern And Action – expressed doubt over the capability of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct credible, free and fair elections in the 2019 general elections. Dr. Obasanjo recalled the experience of the Osu State Governorship election which he said that what was conclusive was declared inconclusive by INEC which further went on conduct unnecessary rerun. The further President further alleged that INEC has already written the result of the elections it is yet to conduct.

“I, personally, have serious doubt about the present INEC’s integrity, impartiality and competence to conduct a fair, free and credible election.  And if the INEC is willing, will the ruling party and government allow it?
“From what we saw and knew about Osun State gubernatorial election, what was conclusive was declared inconclusive despite all advice to the contrary.
“The unnecessary rerun, if viewed as a test-run for a larger general elections, would lead people to expect incidences of deliberately contrived, broken or non-working voting machines or card readers, confusion of voters as to their voting stations, inadequate supply of voting materials to designated places, long line to discourage voters and turning blind eyes to favour the blue-eye political party of INEC because the Commission’s hands will be tied to enable hatchet men and women to perform their unwholesome assignment,” Dr. Obasanjo remarked.
The former President also said that “the transmission and collation of results are subject to interference, manipulation and meddling.  If the INEC’s favourite political party wins with all the above infractions, the result will be conclusively declared and if not, there will be a ‘rerun’, the result of which is known before it is carried out.
“I know that I am not alone in being sceptical about the integrity of INEC and its ability to act creditably and above board.  But we are open to be convinced otherwise,” the former President said.
He maintained that, “the joke about INEC would seem real.  The INEC was asked if the Commission was ready for the election and if it expects the election to be free, fair and credible.  The INEC man is reported as saying in response, “we are ready with everything including the results!”  God save Nigeria!”
He stated that it is up to Nigerians to ensure that the redline is not crossed in safeguarding our fledgling democracy.  “And if crossed, appropriate action must be taken not to allow our democracy to be derailed,” Obasanjo advocated.
He decried that the track record of the present INEC is fairly sordid, declaring: “all men and women of goodwill and believers in democracy must be prepared for the worst from INEC and their encouragers and how to get Nigeria out of the electoral morass that the Commission is driving us into.  To be forewarned is to be forearmed.  A battle long forewarned does not embroil the cripple nor catch him unawares.  A word is sufficient for the wise.  The labour of Nigerian democracy heroes must not be in vain.”
Share this on WhatsApp