https://gaim.fidelitybank.ng/


Share this on WhatsApp
The Deputy President of the Senate, Barrister Ike Ekweremadu, has refuted reports that he is isolated from the presidential campaign   of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),
Ekweremmadu in a statement acknowledged the orchestrated attempts by some characters to create the impression of a divided house in Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the coming presidential election. He noted that such characters dish out fake and divisive stories without source on a daily basis and attribute same to me.
The Deputy Senate President observed that while he refuse to be distracted by such cheap blackmail, smear campaign, and extreme propaganda, “it is important to reassure our supporters that the PDP is united and focused on wresting power from the All Progressives Congress, APC.”
He narrated that after the PDP lost the presidency and majority status at the National Assembly in 2015, he made it clear that he would stand by the party, no matter what. “It took other party stakeholders and I a lot of efforts, sacrifices, soul-searching, and painstaking negotiations to hold the party together and rebuild it. ‘If I did not abandon the PDP at its darkest hour, it does not make the slightest sense to say that I abandoned it now that its sun is rising again,” Ekweremadu stated.
The Deputy Senate President disclosed that he has, meanwhile, held separate meetings with PDP Vice Presidential candidate, Peter Obi, and the Chairman, South East Governors Forum, Dave Umahi, to work out strategies for the success of the party and candidates in the 2019 elections.
He added that they are also setting up a meeting of South East PDP stakeholders by weekend to continue to strategise on the coming elections.
“I have no doubt that the South East leaders will deliver the region overwhelmingly to the PDP and I expect that other leaders will also do the same in their respective geopolitical zones.
“Therefore, I urge our supporters not to be distracted by such propaganda as we approach the critical stages in the coming elections. We should rather focus on delivering the votes to ensure the success of our party,” Ekweremadu declared.
Share this on WhatsApp