Share this on WhatsApp
The Inspector-General of Police, Ibrahim K. Idris, has appointed Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), Frederick Taiwo Lakanu, as t new Force Secretary and a member of the Nigeria Police Force Management Team.
Acting DCP Jimoh Moshood, Force Public Relations Officer, Force Headquarters, Abuja in a stamen on Tuesday, indicted that the appointment takes immediate effect. He said that the new Force Secretary has taken over from AIG Abdul Bube, who retired from the Force on 31stDecember, 2018 after 35 Years of meritorious service.
 
The profile of the new force Secretary shows that AIG Frederick Taiwo Lakanu, fdc, was born on 12th October, 1959, in Lagos Island, Lagos State. He holds B.A. (Hons) Philosophy and LL.B. (Hons) from one of the foremost Universities in Nigeria, the prestigious University of Lagos, Akoka, Lagos State, and Master in Law from the Leeds Metropolitan University, Leeds, United Kingdom.
 
Moreover, the new Force Secretary is a self-motivated, experienced and versatile law enforcement officer, offering hands-on proven expertise gathered from all geo-political zones of the Country in Community Policing, Strategic Planning, Coordination, Supervision and Implementation, towards achieving higher levels of community service, public safety and security in Nigeria.
 
Lakanu attended several courses within and outside the Country, including Crime Investigation Course at the Police Staff College, Jos, and Developmental Course at Kofi Annan Centre for Peace Keeping, Accra, Ghana. He is also a fellow of National Defence College, Abuja.
 
He served in various capacities in the Force as AIG Federal Operations, Force Headquarters, Abuja, Commissioner of Police in Imo and Ekiti States, Commissioner of Police Airport Command, Lagos, Principal Staff Officer to the IGP (Force Headquarters Annex, Lagos) among others.
 
Until his recent appointment, he was the Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of Zone 7 Headquarters, Abuja comprising the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Niger and Kaduna States. He has since assumed duty as the Force Secretary, Nigeria Police Force.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment