Nigerian telco giant, 9mobile has revealed its plans to break fallow grounds in emerging areas like Internet of Things (IoT).

9Mobile, which controls 9 per cent market share and services 15.4 million subscribers in Nigeria, said it’s focused on driving superior customer experience in 2019. The telco also assured customers of improved service delivery, with a focus on exploring new grounds to satisfy subscribers.

The Acting Managing Director of the company, Stephane Beuvelet maintained that in furtherance of 9mobile’s commitment to deliver superior customer experience, 9Mobile is set to break new grounds in 2019 by kick-starting a new strategic direction with bold initiatives that guarantee optimum value to customers.

“From an aggressive enhancement of network capacity and innovative features to boost HD voice and video/data services, LTE network coverage expansion to 15 new cities, more innovative data offerings including triple play and streaming service, to digital services that support your everyday needs such as our 9Pay payment service, we are set to break fallow grounds in emerging areas like Internet of Things (IoT) and Machine Learning capabilities to drive superior customer experience,” Beuvelet said.
Internet of things (IoT) is the network of devices, vehicles, and home appliances that contain electronics, software, actuators, and connectivity which allows these things to connect, interact and exchange data.


IoT involves extending Internet connectivity beyond standard devices, such as desktops, laptops, smartphones and tablets, to any range of traditionally dumb or non-internet-enabled physical devices and everyday objects. Embedded with technology, these devices can communicate and interact over the internet, and they can be remotely monitored and controlled.

Emerging Markets Telecommunication Services Limited (EMTS) – also known as 9mobile – is a Nigerian private limited liability company. EMTS acquired a Unified Access Service License from the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) in 2007.

The License enables EMTS to provide Fixed Telephony (wired or wireless), Digital Mobile Services, International Gateway Services and National/Regional Long Distance Services in addition to spectrum assignments in the 900 and 1800 MHz bands.

With a recent name change and rebranding in July 2017, the company launched its new brand identity – 9mobile, with an unveiling of the new name and logo. The new brand identity, according to the telco, reflects the bold and creative attributes which we share with our valued subscribers especially the vibrant youth segment.

			
			PV: 
			0