Share this on WhatsApp
The African Bar Association, AFBA, says Federal Government of Nigeria’s decision to suspend of Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen without recourse to due process, is a call for anarchy which the country cannot afford.

In a statement signed by its president, Hannibal Uwaifo, and made available to National Daily, AFBA said report reaching it from the Nigerian Forum stated that the Honourable Chief Justice was suspended under unclear circumstances and in violation of the rule and due process as enshrine in the Nigerian constitution and the Nigerian legal system which recognizes separation of powers.

Uwaifo in the statement said coming against the background of the upcoming general elections in which the judiciary is expected to play a critical role, the various human rights violations, disobedience of legitimate court judgement and illegal actions by the federal government of Nigeria and its agencies and the suspension of the Chief Justice is a call to anarchy which Nigeria cannot afford.

“While the African Bar Association will continue to support the Nigerian government in its fight against corruption particularly in public office, the rule of law must be the cornerstone and all safeguards against arbitrary  powers must be activated in dealing with all cases and justice must be manifestly and undoubtedly seen to have be done,”
He said though the AFBA concedes that the Justice Onnoghen is not above the law and should be made to account for his illegitimate indiscretions where proven, but so is the federal government of Nigeria.

“The African Bar Association therefore call for an immediate review of all actions leading to the suspension of the Chief Justice and follow the due to process of law.”

He also stressed that AFBA will continue to monitor the event and will have an extensive discussion on the matter and other similar issues at its forthcoming Executive Council meeting in Benin-city, Nigeria in February.

AFBA also cautioned lawyers against obtaining conflicting orders and judgements from Nigerian courts as this would only serve to further deepened the crisis and obscure the real issues.

It would be recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari had on Friday complied with the order of the Code of Conduct Tribunal directing the suspension of the CJN.

The CJN was suspended pending the determination of the case against him at the Code of Conduct Tribunal.

The president, who announced Onnoghen’s suspension at the Council Chamber of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, consequently swore in the next most senior judge of the Supreme Court, Justice Tanko Mohammed, as the acting CJN.



Share this on WhatsApp