Share this on WhatsApp










The Lagos State Police Command has intensified preparations toward ensuring peaceful environment for the 2019 general elections in Lagos State.
The Command at the weekend joined 2,300 security officers drawn from the Police, all arms of the military, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps for joint-forces road show across the state to assure the electorates and other citizens in the state that they are adequately prepared to provide security before, during and after the February 16 and March 2, 2019 general elections.
At the joint security exercise that lasted for hours, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Edgal Imohimi, highlighted that during the last inter-agency security meeting at the State Police Command Headquarter, chaired by him, he notified Lagosians that they would soon carryout a joint inter-agency friendly show of force across the state.
Edgal said that Lagos State had been divided into sectors of five units; he explained that the show of force displayed by the joint-forces meant to reassure Lagosians of the ability of the security operatives to provide adequate security in the state before, during and after the 2019 elections.
The CP said: “It is our intention to make sure that Lagosians come out enmasse without threat, intimidation, harassment and undue influence resulting in vote buying. So, we want a peaceful, clear playing field for every Lagosian to come and exercise his franchise and in doing this; let me assure Lagosians that we shall exhibit a highest level of professionalism.”
Edgal emphasized that the Acting Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, in his maiden address stated that one of the cardinal points of his new administration would be to restore the highest level of professionalism in the Force, noting that they intend to start to exhibit that in Lagos before, during and after the general elections.
“So, Lagosians should not panic, this is a friendly show of force, it is to showcase our ability to protect the city not only on land but also on water and on air because as I speak to you, we also have six gunboats operating in convoy within the three notable water channels all across Lagos state.
“We are also in partnership with the Air Force to ensure that they do some air surveillance from time to time and of course, our RRS surveillance choppers will also be flying across the state to give us aerial pictures and surveillance pictures.
“And so, Lagosians, we are ready, we will continue to partner with you to ensure we have a very safe society and safe state,” the CP declared.










Share this on WhatsApp