Share this on WhatsApp
By Odunewu Segun

Bad loans and low savings have been said to be the most serious threats facing the banking sector in Nigeria, and that many commercial banks may not survive the situation unless an urgent solution is provided.

In report by Aljazeera, it also listed inefficient service delivery, people’s distrust for the banking sector, rising bad loans, and extreme poverty which makes it difficult for the average Nigerian to deposit money in banks.
                                                            
According to the report, it is only a tiny percentage of the country’s population that have significant savings in their bank accounts. Moreover, most wealthy Nigerians now prefer to invest their money in other opportunities outside the country, instead of merely depositing in banks.

Furthermore, only some 350 individuals (out of a population of nearly 200 million people) are responsible for 80% of the country’s bank debts.

The report stated that all of these factors combine to become the most serious challenge which must be addressed in order to guarantee the sector’s future.

“This is very important, bearing in mind that within the past decade, quite a number of banks have failed; no thanks to some of the problems mentioned above. Millions of people do not deposit their savings in banks and the wealthy choose to invest elsewhere,” the report stated.

“First, banks should always endeavour to ensure that customers are satisfied. This is a major issue which most banks seem to have taken for granted. As one of the respondents in the Aljazeera report stated, he decided to stop depositing his money in the bank simply because he wasn’t satisfied with the services he received.

“Banks also need to provide easy access to loans for their customers and ensure better returns on savings.

The report identified that many Nigerians currently do not operate bank accounts, even as some “have never stepped foot in a bank.” This should be a challenge to banks.

Meanwhile, seeing as poverty has also been identified as a major factor in this regard, it said Government has a huge role to play towards ensuring that extreme poverty in Nigeria is alleviated if not completely eradicated.

Most importantly, the Central Bank of Nigeria and other regulatory agencies need to intensify their oversight function.
 
Share this on WhatsApp