Share this on WhatsApp
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) vice presidential candidate for the February 16 general election, Peter Obi, on Thursday assured Nigerians that PDP will overturn the economic misfortunes of the country under the current government and move Nigeria to rapid economic growth.
Obi at an interactive forum with the Edo State stakeholders and members of the Peoples Democratic Party in Benin, decried that over 40 per cent of young Nigerians were unemployed, leading to Nigeria being referred to as one of the poorest countries in the world.
Obi further said that “Nigeria has been shut down economically, politically and socially for more than three years.
“This has resulted in hunger, insecurity, and economic instability especially in the North Eastern part of the country.”
The PDP candidate noted that the Atiku/Obi-led government will bring back foreign investors to develop the economy of the country.
“Those who have closed their businesses for fear of kidnapping, banditry, insurgency as a result of government inability to provide security for the citizenry, will be encouraged to return,” Obi remarked
He reiterated that the power sector would be taken care of through policies that would make the sector to work again and contribute to the country’s economic development.
“We are going to treat everybody equally, especially the physically challenged in the area of empowerment.
“We will take the issue of the physically challenged very seriously in our incoming government and that is one of our agenda,” Obi said.
He said that local government autonomy would work through “proper restructuring and federalism.”
“Local government will become very free and autonomous to get its revenue directly from the federation account without state interference for rapid grassroots development,” he added.
He also gave the assurance that an Atiku/Obi ticket would ensure that “incessant strike being experienced now,” would be a thing of the past.
Obi said that if voted in, the PDP administration would give more priority to education and health care facilities.
Share this on WhatsApp