Share this on WhatsApp

Former governor of Ekiti state, Ayodele Fayose, has asked Nigerian workers not to allow themselves be deceived by President Muhammadu Buhari with the setting up of another minimum wage committee.

Buhari had on Wednesday inaugurated a technical committee which he said will recommend modalities for the implementation of the new minimum wage.

But Fayose in a statement issued on Wednesday by his Media Aide, Lere Olayinka, wondered what other functions the new committee will perform since Buhari had already promised to send the new minimum wage bill to the National Assembly to effect the change from N18,000 to N30,000 three months ago.

He argued that Buhari became jittery when the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) vowed not to vote for him unless the N30,000 minimum wage is implemented and opted to deceiving the workers with the Bismark Rewane led committee.

“It is on record that on November 6, 2018, while receiving the report of the Tripartite Committee on the Review of National Minimum Wage, President Buhari endorsed N30,000 as the new national minimum wage. He also promised to send a bill to the National Assembly to effect the change from N18,000 to N30,000.

“This is more than three months and the President is now setting up another committee purportedly to recommend modalities for the implementation of the new minimum wage. So what did the first committee that recommended the N30,000 minimum wage actually do?

“How committees is he going to set up on a new minimum wage that he told Nigerians that he already approved since November last year and was set to present the bill to the National Assembly?

“The President is simply playing on the intelligence of the workers by giving impression that he is committed to the new minimum wage so as to get votes from them.

“The workers should therefore shine their eyes and avoid being deceived by a President who has failed in all ramifications and desperately seeking to hold on to power even at the expense of the suffering Nigerians,” he said.

The former governor who insisted that the president lacked clue and cannot provide any solution to the problems of Nigeria, said no amount of deceitful committee will sway the workers into reelecting allowing a failed government to superintend over the country for another four years.

Share this on WhatsApp