Share this on WhatsApp
By Esther Egbe
Coach Abdullahi Biffo, the technical adviser of Katsina United Football Club has narrated how he spent 17 days in the den of kidnappers, describing it as hell,
Biffo told National Daily that everything happened like a dream that turned into a nightmare when the vehicle he boarded travelling to Katsina state was stopped at a check point between Zaria and Malufashi by the kidnappers, disguised wearing the uniform of policemen and he and other passengers thought they were policemen on an official duty.
Unfortunately, it turned ugly when it dawned on them that they had fallen into the trap of notorious kidnappers operating in the North West axis in Nigeria.
“We were stopped at a checkpoint and we thought they were policemen seeing them wearing policemen uniforms, but they were very hostile and looking very fierce and they demanded for our phones and other valuables we had with us.” Biffo said.
“The kidnappers then blindfolded us and took us inside the bush where we trekked for hours until we entered a vehicle that took us to their abode in Zamfara state as we later discovered. We were blindfolded all through the journey to their den,” he added.
The former chief coach of Abia Warriors further informed that he would have become history the day Nigeria Air Force jet bombed the location of the kidnappers in Zamfara, but God in his infinite mercies delivered him and other captors as the bomb narrowly missed where they were kept.
“We could have been killed the day Nigeria Air Force bombed the environment where we were kept, a rocky area in the forest in Zamfara. We heard bomb explosions very closed to us, like about 500 meters I think so and felt the impact of the explosion, but God protected us.
“It was a very fearful experience for me. I want to thank God for helping me out alive after spending 17 days with the kidnappers. I also appreciates management of Katsina United and the state government for their intervention, the football family in Nigeria and the media for showing concern towards me and my family during this ordeal,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp