By Olanrewaju Adesanya

The Lagos State House of Assembly on has lauded the contributions of Hon. Yahya Dosunmu, a member of the 3rd Assembly to even development in the state.

Members of the 9th Assembly all took turns to eulogize the Dosunmu an astute politician,as he clock 80 years at a special plenary held in his honour witnessed by dignitaries from his division as the celebrant sat reminiscing the good memories of past time.

The Deputy Speaker, Hon Wasiu Sanni-Eshinlokun who presided over the plenary said, “Baba is a politically sagacious,firm man loaded with integrity,like a fine wine,Baba gets better by the years, it is an apt occasion to appreciate his contributions  as former Eti Osa Chairman,a pathfinder, erudite politician and a grassroots development expert of note. He left indelible marks, his antecedents are still aiding us till today.”

In his address, Dosunmu who sat at the Deputy Speaker’s seat said humorously, “The highest position I held was the chairman House Service Committee but today I’m being promoted, I’ll leave here as a Deputy  Speaker .”

The celebrant however canvassed for better welfare of ex-lawmakers, saying “the legislative arm is not doing well in terms of welfare package for ex-members.

“There should be an enabling law for ex-member. Ex-members should be catered for, their feeding, health care and basic needs. It may come in form of monthly stipend,” Dosunmu said.

While leading the tribute in honour of Dosunmu, Hon. Noheem Adams who represents Eti-Osa comstituency I where the octogenarian represented, stated that “Baba represented Eti-Osa constituency between 1979-83.

“He was elected twice and was the Chairman House Service Committee,” Adams said.

Hon Gbolahan Yishawu discosed that Hon Dosunmu “moved landmark motions when he was a member. He moved the motion for stoppage of landing rate for canoes which gave succour to his constituents who were majorly fishermen, mobile health services and prevailing on the Commissioner for Trade to establish small scale industries in rural areas.

“He brings us together. We are happy to look up to you as our mentor,” Yishawu said.

The Deputy Majority Leader, Hon. Muyiwa Jimoh said, “this is the second time we will be the bending rule for our past members.”

He described Dosunmu as a communist who looked after the welfare of his people.

Jimoh added that since the executive has the tradition of honouring their ex-members with pension there was nothing  stopping the House from doing same for their ex- colleagues, as well harnessing the historical briefs of the Assembly into a compendium to encode its history for all to link up.
“We must work assiduously on our history to get it to be part of us,it is only here we don’t know our history.
“I could see many Honourable not putting on their lights because they don’t know much about the history of the Assembly. We need to have a compendium of our history.”

Hon Olanrewaju Oshun, in his own contributions noted that Hon.Dosunmu remains a leading light worthy of emulation for what true representation should be.

“We are to serve the people,they are the boss. Representing is not all about your constituency but about Lagos,Lagos is Baba’s legacy.

The Majority Leader Hon.Sanai Agunbiade however added a twist to the recount of Hon.Dosunmu’s feat as a lawmaker when he noted that major roads now constructed in Epe and Lekki axis of the state was due his unique communication skill.

“A lawmaker was said to have worn rain boot to the house on a number of occasions  so as to impress it on all for them to know that roads are needed in Lekki,Epe axis of the state,here sat the lawmaker in question.

“Your past have contributed to our success today,this house is working assiduously to document all done from the first to the ninth Assembly for the preservation of our wealth of history.”




			
			PV: 
			0