The reign of Unai Emery as Arsenal manager finally came to an end last Friday following the Gunners poor runs of form.
This development hence ushered the decision for a permanent replacement for the Spaniard after Freddie Ljungberg was appointed as the interim manager.
Freddie Ljungberg was appointed as Arsenal interim manager following Emery’s dismissal last Friday
Meanwhile, National Daily gathered that Mauricio Pochettino finally has opened the door on an instant return to the Premier League, declaring himself ready to dive straight back into management.
The development with Pochettino has delighted Arsenal fans especially as some club legends have urged club to engage the Argentine.
The former Tottenham boss has been continually linked with moves to Arsenal.
And he has now further stirred the pot by stating that there are “attractive projects for me to take on” while speaking with Fox Sports in Argentina.
“But, for the time being, the most important thing is for me to clear my head after five-and-a-half incredible seasons with Tottenham
Pochettino has been continually linked with a move to Arsenal
“My aim is to seek the ability to rebuild myself and get my self-motivation back.
“It is my intention to return to manage in Europe. It is hard for me to imagine a project in Argentina. However for the sake of my family, I would not refuse to work over here.
“But now I need to be calm for a few days and see what happens. I haven’t had a lot of time to digest what has happened with me.
“My first decision was to come back to Argentina, return to my home and see family and friends. But I expect to return to Europe to make decisions on my future.
“My best decision was to come to Argentina to switch off for 10 days.
“At my age I don’t need a lot of time to recover. I am open to listen to projects put before me.”
Pochettino was sacked by Tottenham two weeks ago, after a difficult start to the season in north London, with Jose Mourinho coming in as his replacement.
But the ex-Southampton coach remains highly thought of – both at the Emirates and even at Old Trafford.
Arsenal director Josh Kroenke declared at the weekend that the Gunners are still looking to secure a top four finish this term and that their process to hire a new boss has already begun National Daily further learnt.
As a free agent, Pochettino is a genuine contender for the top job on the red side of north London, despite previously claiming that he wouldn’t make the move.
 








			
			PV: 
			0