In 2019, there were quite some dramas, volcanic trends and a high dose of the constant ish that is now aptly termed the Nigerian Spirit. In 2020 these 10 items will escalate — read, share and trust Ediale Kingsley not to lead you astray.

1. Burna Boy will win Grammy Award:

Yes, a Nigerian will win a Grammy award in 2020. The name of the artiste is Burns Boy. And this will happen on the 27th of January, 2020. Although he would be slugging it out with other giants like Alton Gun, Volante & Metropole Priest Conducted By Jules Buckley, Nathalie Joachim With Skeptral Quartet and Angelique Kidjo.

The indisputable giant of them all is Burna Boy and he shall do the Nation proud with his Africa Giant album in the Best World Music Album Category. It’s quite a given that Burna was the loudest thing in Nigerian music this year. And also a no brainer that he is the guy to beat in the Category. He has managed to reproduce a fine blend of the original African sound laced with an authentic Nigerian vibe.

Other Nigerians nominated are Mr. Eazi, Tiwa Savage, Tekno, Legendary Beats, WizKid, Bankuli, Sarz, Yemi Alade, P2J, and Northboi.

2. We shall witness a Nollywood-Hollywood marriage:

Genevieve Nnaji’s Lion Heart was rejected by the Oscars. But it’s rejection sparked up some interesting debates as well raised some global dust. In 2020 we shall experience more authentic romance between Nollywood and Hollywood. This December one film, titled Different Worlds, which is being distributed globally by Eddy Murphy’s company will premiere in Lagos, Nigeria. It was partly shot in Nigeria and in the United States of America. In 2020 there shall be even more daring collaborations. That will see the biggest Hollywood icons traveling down Nigeria to make films that will go global.

2020 is the year. You already saw the Music industry attract Cardi B. Don’t be surprised, the Angelina Jolie and co will be coming — thanks to platforms such as Netflix. That is why we must not adhere to the parable that says we shouldn’t “throw the baby with the bad bathing water”. We must not destroy Netflix in Nigeria because of the clowns that made that annoying movie called Gay Jesus.

3. Genevieve Nnaji and Don Jazzy will get married in 2020:

Surely Don Jazzy and Genevieve Nnaji are due for marriage and the coast seems clear. It’s now time to witness the biggest wedding ever!

For Genevieve Nnaji 2019 was a great year for her. She was able to push her film Lion Heart on some great platforms, festivals and even Oscars (although it was at the last minute rejected for language qualms).

Genevieve got a mouth-watering deal from Netflix. She’s happy, as a typical Ibo girl, she must now have marriage on her mind. So why not in 2020?

Don Jazzy’s parents have asked for their son to bring home a wife. The Mavin records boss is one of the most wealthiest Bachelors in the Nigerian Entertainment industry. He is so highly an eligible Bachelor. In this radar of mine, I see him getting married this year.

His friends — Dbanj, Tuface, Mr. P, Rude Boy, Banky W— are all married.

This wedding will shut down Lagos or Dubai (wherever they choose to hold it). And what if Don Jazzy introduces Genevieve as his wife in 2020?

4. Barcelona will win the Champions League in 2020:

Either the men’s team who crashed out last year at the Semi-Final or Oshoala’s Women side who went all the way to the final and lost to Lyon.

5. Vice President Osinbajo will face more persecution:

In the political front, the big issues as it affects who becomes the President in 2023 will thickens. It will be clearer to all that the Vice President who is a loyalist to APC Party leader, Ahmed Tinubu, is the fittest for the race. A situation that will earn the VP some fresh enemies.

6. Pep Guardiola will return to Barcelona:

Thanks to the Theory of Four. The theory of four says Pep Guardiola only spends four years in a place before moving. He spent four years in Barcelona before a sabbatical.

After which he went to Germany’s Bayern Munich and did another four years. He is now in his fourth season at the Etihad. He could be leaving Manchester City for Barcelona.

It will make a lot of sense if he goes back to a club he won the Champions League. Since he left Barca, he’s not been able to replicate his dominance over the UCL tournament.

And Barca fans are eager to return back to their glory days when they played the beautiful game in Tiki-Taka style. Especially a time where many fans are unimpressed with the current manager, Valverde.

7. There will be a wedding in Otedola’s house:

One of the two daughters of Otedola will celebrate a glorious union in 2020. It could either be DJ Cuppy who rumor has constantly linked with Anthony Joshua. If this wedding takes place. It will be a wedding of the decade. It could even take place in pluto — Out of space!

If that doesn’t happen, then Teni Otedola (D.J Cuppy’s younger sister) could be the one wowing us with a blissful wedding ceremony. She has been dating Mr. Eazi for a while now. And for each passing day, their relationship just keeps getting juicier.


8. 2020 BBNaija will feature the President’s daughter:

Well…

With the last edition featuring persons from prominent Nigerians, like Seyi, the grandson of Awolowo. It’s a given that the next edition will see a lot of such prominent figures having a place in the show.

If we once felt it was no place for people with prominence then the works of Seyi Awolowo have definitely shattered such thoughts.

So it may not be PMB’s daughter. But surely, one big name will be representing this next season.

9. A Nigerian website will be more popular than Google:

As you read, the most famous Nigerian website is Bet9ja. It’s ranked as Number 3 most famous site in Nigeria. Only Google.com and Google.com.ng rank higher. What this means is Bet9ja is used more than we use facebook or even yahoo and Gmail.

I see it overtaking Google in 2020.

10. In 2020, Nigeria will still be in darkness:

I guess this needs no explanation. It’s common sense. With the Buhari government having Former Lagos Governor, Babatunde Fashola as Minister of power. There was some great hope that he could fix up the power problems. But after the first tenure, it has become clear that we are still far from achieving such a stable power supply.

So which of the predictions are you hopeful for?

			
			PV: 
			0