The dream of every Red Devils fan is to see quality players grace the Old Trafford once again. And this is what Mauricio Pochettino is tipped to do if he lands Man United job eventually.
Mauricio Pochettino is tipped to attract more quality players at Old Trafford
National Daily gathered from emanating claim by former Tottenham midfielder Jamie O’Hara that Pochettino would be able attract ‘star quality’ players if he was to take over at Manchester United.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer continues to feel the heat at Old Trafford after a tricky start to the season.
And Pochettino’s recent Tottenham dismissal has only added to speculation that the Argentinian is the man to replace the current Red Devils boss if he is also relieved of his duties.
Pundits and fans have backed United bosses to spend big in January, in the hope of helping Solskjaer get the season back on track National Daily learnt.
O’Hara believes that Pochettino is more equipped as United manager than Solskjaer
But O’Hara believes appointing Pochettino would give the 13-time Premier League champions a greater chance of attracting big name players.
“I just think if you take away Ole Gunnar Solskjaer in terms of him being a Man United legend and they said that they were going to get a Molde manager, he’s not big enough for the football club, he’s not strong enough,” he said on talkSPORT.
“He did a great job when he came in, he steadied the ship, he got the feel-good factor back, but at the end of the day his win percentage ratio is something like 29 per cent. It’s not good enough.
“I understand the players that he’s got, when you look at their midfield, Fred and Pereira and you’re looking at it thinking ‘Wow, is this a Man United midfield?’.
“But, with Poch coming in, he will get better out of players, he will get something more out of them, but he will also make the club more attractive to star quality players who will go ‘Pochettino’s there, Man United, that’s a good fit’.
“I think at the moment, I don’t think they can attract the big players.”
The Manchester Evening News claim Pochettino remains ‘enchanted’ with the prospect of taking over at United, after missing out on the post when Jose Mourinho was sacked 12 months ago.
But Solskjaer has shot down claims he is feeling the heat after Tottenham sacked the popular manager, insisting he is still planning for the future.

Solskjaer has been under pressure to succeed at United especially with Pochettino presence looming

“I’m just focusing on my job,” he said on Tuesday.
“That’s doing as well as I can and look forward to the next game, but also look long term, plan things with the board.
“It’s that time of year. It’s never nice to see your colleagues lose their jobs – now three in a very short space of time.
“It doesn’t make me more concerned.”

			
			PV: 
			0