As Ogun Gov. Dapo Abiodun sent his commissioner list to the state assembly for screening, groups loyal to the APC godfather in the state have kicked against the selection, triggering a potential crisis similar to that rocking the ruling party in Edo.
The loyalists, under the aegis of “Osoba Political Family”, said that some individuals who are conservatively greedy businessmen and hijackers of power have succeeded in confusing Abiodun.
A statement signed jointly by Alhaja Yemisi Ayinla, Mrs Toyin Usifo, Pastor Matthew Oladele, Mr. Jelili Onayemi and Chief Labeth Abodunrin, reads:
“These power manipulators were part of past government in Ogun State that people in their wisdom rejected but stealthily walked back into the realm of Government through the calm approach to governance by Prince Dapo Abiodun and are ready to wreck further havoc to the dreams and aspirations of the Progressives in the APC and the State who worked tirelessly for the emergence of the Governor, “ a statement by the group read in part.
“It is on record and we challenge any of the hijackers to contradict the fact that Our Leader, Akinrogun Olusegun Osoba, against all odds stood solidly by Prince Dapo Abiodun, from the point he decided to run for the office of The Governor and put his hard earned reputation and goodwill at stake to surety Prince Dapo Abiodun before Labour Unions and PMB.”
The group said they shall not vacate the party for any interloper and hyenas hovering around the Governor as it is now observed.
“It crystal clear now that they have moved to submerge the structure of the Party in the State, as they arrogate so much powers to themselves because they occupy the corridor of power,” said the group..
“It is important for Prince Dapo Abiodun to remember that sweat and blood shed by the members of this Political Family in order to serve the State should not be forgotten as God Almighty who used these people to actualise your dream and aspirations is on the throne observing all our deeds. The fear of God is the beginning of wisdom.”
They then call on the National Chairman of the party, its National leaders, South West Caucus Leaders including but not limited to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Chief Akande, Chief Adeniyi Adebayo and other well meaning Nigerians to prevail on Prince Dapo Abiodun to do the needful and correct the imbalance perceived so far in Ogun State.

			
			PV: 
			0