By Odimmegwa Johnpeter/Abuja
Since the inauguration of Service Compact (SERVICOM) in the Bureau  of Public Enterprises (BPE) in 2008, it has impacted positively not only on the general ambience of the Bureau but it  has  also keyed into actualising the Bureau’s value statement of Integrity, Professionalism, Accountability, Responsibility, Transparency (IPART), Director General of the Bureau, Mr. Alex A. Okoh has declared.
Speaking during the SERVICOM Day symposium and Launch of the Bureau’s Service Charter held at the Bureau recently, the DG noted that at the Bureau, customer service is not only a department but has become everyone’s job resulting into an organisational culture.
According to Okoh, who was represented at the event by the Director, Infrastructure & Public Private Partnership (I &PPP), Mallam Sanusi Sule,”our processes are constantly under scrutiny and review which allows us to identify areas of lapses both internally amongst staff and with our external Stakeholders”. He added that the SERVICOM Unit periodically conducts a Comment Card Exercise to gauge the level and quality of service delivery in Departments/Units in the Bureau.
The exercise, he noted, is aimed at identifying areas in which such Departments/Units have fallen short of exemplary service and build on such areas to attain maximal level of service delivery.
He said it is in conformity with the fact that there is no area of compromise between good and bad service delivery that at all times, the Bureau’s staff are committed to ensuring an optimal level of service delivery as it is the only way to meeting organisational objectives and moving the country to the desired level.
While commending the SERVICOM Office for the passion with which it executes its mandate despite daunting challenges as it is  constantly on the  trail of the Bureau “and pushing us to do better”, the DG also praised staff of Bureau  for their understanding and cooperation because the  SERVICOM Unit could not have done it alone.
Also speaking at the event, Coordinator/CEO of SERVICOM Office, Nnena Akajiemeli who was represented by the Head of Operations of the Office, Mrs.Jummai Abdullahi, commended the Bureau for putting together a Service Charter.
She said that any organisation without the document, was short-changing its employees.
Speaking later on the topic: Ethical Conduct/Compliance in Work Place, Mrs. Abdullahi harped on ethical conduct in the work place;and reminded the BPE staff that work ethic is a clear picture of one’s moral and behavioral values.
“If you want to leave a good lasting impression, put good work ethic to practice. Not only will it make you feel good about yourself, it may get you noticed by your employer”, she added.

			
			PV: 
			0