“Both men and women should feel free to be sensitive. Both men and women should feel free to be strong…it is time that we all perceive gender on a spectrum not as two opposing sets of ideas.”
― Emma Watson
When I was growing up in the 80s and in the 90s, there were so many stereotypes about what girls were supposed to be and what boys on the other hands ought to be. I remember the assumption that boys were superior in intellect to girls because girls were flighty minded. Boys were deigned to naturally be able to focus on science and math challenges for a long time. As a child, these differences weren’t apparent until I got closer to my teenage years. Then it was as though, my intellect wasn’t celebrated, it was something to downplay, it was of more value to be pretty. This notion is one I have heard reiterated over and over by lots of girls across Nigeria. This apparent gender gap has major implications for education as it has been ongoing.
With all of the research refuting the fallacy that women aren’t good in STEM, there is still a gender gap. The American Psychological Association (APA) has presented that the gender gap in mathematics ability has reduced in the last 30 years. The APA retrieved data that showed that there was a ratio of 13 boys to 1 girl in the top percentile in 1983. In 2007, that chasm has contracted to between 2.8 girls to 4 boys in the top percentile.
Through the examination of the data, a progressive shift in female student math aptitude can be seen to be occurring, which the APA ascribes to shifting cultural attitudes that are more accepting of female STEM students.
This shows what a lot of us know to be true, regrettably, opinions of some parents and teachers buttress the stereotype that STEM is for boys, and girls should focus on other more traditionally acceptable subjects. Fortunately, there are ways that teachers can do to battle this fallacy
Cultivate the child, attack the gap
The predisposition to nurture boys to pursue STEM might not be deliberate, in fact teachers for the most part aren’t aware of the biases that they have and exhibit, the way  they tell girls to focus on more gender- suitable coursework. Work on acquiring ways to cultivate a growth-mindset for students who feel incompetent about STEM. Show to students that the obstacles to success is due Show students that the barriers to their success are surmountable and they will feel differently about STEM.
Work on parents becoming supportive.
Teachers should remain observant of the various ways that their own biases could affect their pedagogical methods in their teaching for both genders. However, they must contend with other influences apart from themselves. Parents and other family members a lot of times hold back their female relatives from being all that they desire to be.
When they observe their female students manifesting negative attitudes about STEM, after they have ensured that the class environment, and classmate relationships are positive ones, they then consider that parents could be hampering their student’s  success. Try meeting the parents to discuss their child’s educational growth.
With all of this, there is hope about, the Pew Research Group made a report that showed that in 2012, 71 percent of female students registered in college immediately after high-school graduation, in comparison to 61 percent of male students. This is a ray of hope about the gender gap in STEM being closed eventually.
Adetola Salau; Global Educator / International Speaker / Author/ Social Entrepreneur/ Innovative Thinker/Future Readiness Advocate/ STEM Certified Trainer
She is an Advocate of STEM Education and is Passionate about Education reform. She is an innovative thinker and strives for our society & continent as a whole to reclaim it’s greatness.
E-mail-:Carismalife4U@gmail.com
facebook-: Carisma4u
twitter-: @Carisma4u
Website-: www.carisma4u.com
 

			
			PV: 
			0