Satguru Maharaj Ji, the self-acclaimed ” living perfect master” the founder of One Love Family, has asked the Federal Government to publish the names of those who confessed to stealing monies and those who have begged for plea bargaining in order to deepen President Muhammadu Buhari’s anti-corruption war.
MaharajJi who spoke in Ibadan on Friday at a news conference at his village to herald activities marking his 72nd birthday and 40th spiritual birthday also asked the Federal Government to fish out those who sold and shared the monies for Nigeria Airways, Ajaokuta Steel, Delta Steel, NEPA to mention a few and prosecute them.
According to him, Nigeria’s GDP would grow astronomically if President Buhari’s anti-graft war is supported by all stakeholders.
Maharaj Ji, who lamented the hardship being faced by some workers after retirement, called on the Federal Government to investigate the Pension Commission and restore the old pension system with the accompanying gratuity.
“Mr President should enact an executive order stipulating death sentence for those involved in cultism to save our youths.
MaharajJi also stressed the need for government to establish an education bank where anyone could apply for loans for academic pursuits.
He further called for the removal of religion and tribe categories from all forms for employment, adding that sex workers in the country should be drafted into national farms, police or army to serve the nation.
MaharajJi stressed the need for government to initiate steps for the creation of state and local government police to be funded by 10 percent of the national budget.
He urged the police to discharge their duties proactively and in accordance with the law, urging them to adhere strictly to government’s zero tolerance for corruption and all kinds of criminal activities.
“The Nigeria Police are the friends of the public but sometimes allow tribal and religious sentiments to outweigh their good intentions. How could anyone suspect Maharaj Ji village as hideout for criminals?
“It is on record that our internal security operatives have spearheaded the arrest of armed robbers who happen to be landlords at Odo-Ona kekere opposite Maharaj Ji village.
Maharaj Ji commended Buhari’s magnanimity in releasing Mr Omoyele Sowore, urging the Sahara Reporter publisher to always follow the rule of law whenever he was aggrieved on any national issue.
 

			
			PV: 
			0