Today we take a look at Nigerian artistes who at one point or the other destined for bigger (great) things but they have found themselves stagnated or they have stopped making progress. While many of them can not be blamed for their standstill, most are the architect of their misfortune. We take a look at 12 of the long list of stalled Nigerian stars.

12. MAY D

Singer May D might be doing OK right now, but he was destined for bigger things (MAMA Awards, BET, endorsement deals etc) when he was in Square Records.

11. KLEVER J


Klever J continues to make music, but the last banger the street heard from him remains Koni Koni Love which was released in 2008.

10. EMMA NYRA


Emma Nyra is known for her curves these days instead of her music. She hasn’t released a single song since mid last year.

09. PRYSE


Many swore Pryse will send Nigerian rappers to early grave, the sultry rapper hasn’t released a single record in 2 years.

08. NIGGA RAW (MR. RAW)


Phyno might be the one to blame for his lack of progress, but the eastern veteran hasn’t made a mark in Nigerian music industry in a while…

07. SHANK


Shank hasn’t released a decent record since Ghetto.

06. W4


W4 tried to make a comeback earlier this year but fortunately for him, he realised nothing was the same.

05. KAYSWITCH


Kayswitch’s career has been nothing to write home about since Mo’Hits went defunct. Maybe he should have pledged allegiance to Don Jazzy.

04. CHUDDY K


Where is Chuddy K?

03. AJEBUTTER 22


Where is Ajebutter? The man who gave us Omo Pastor?

02. DAMMY KRANE


Dammy Krane and Wizkid used to be pitched head to head, anyone who does that now should be sent to jail for disrespect.

01. D’PRINCE


D’Prince used to be that man that dropped a hit every year back then but he has found himself as the bottom of Mavin Records family tree… Even MTN dropped him because of this. D’PRINCE moved to Mavinn Records after the dissolution of Mo’ Hits Records in 2012. In 2015 D’Prince had a child with Sharon Oparacho a graduate of Coventry University, UK.

			
			PV: 
			0