Reports reaching National Daily reveal that English Premier League has just witnessed the sack of yet another coach.
Everton have fired their manager Marco Silva after the Toffees fell into the relegation zone following their thrashing by Liverpool.

Recall that Jose Mourinho was also fired by Manchester United after the Red Devils defeat to Liverpool last December.
Mourinho giving his assessment of poor Man United current situation
The Toffees fell to their ninth loss in 15 Premier League games this term, as their horrendous start to the campaign continued at Anfield.
Big things were expected of Everton at the start of the season, with Silva splashing out big money on Alex Iwobi, Moise Kean, Andre Gomes and Jean-Philippe Gbamin.
But the Toffees fell into the drop zone after their 5-2 Merseyside derby defeat, having been 4-1 down at half-time as their dreadful record at Anfield – 20 years and counting without a league win – continued.
The Blues shipped five against their rivals for the first time since 1982, taking their recent run to seven defeats in 10 outings.
Speaking post-game, Silva was scathing, branding his side’s display “not good enough, not brave enough”.
The 42-year-old was also resigned to his fate. When asked about his future, he said: “I am not the right person to answer about the situation, this question is for different people.
“Every game I get the same question.
“My words here will change nothing.”
Silva moved to Merseyside in May, 2018 after a long chase from Everton – who had been keen to snare him from Watford during his spell with the Hornets National Daily learnt.
His time at Vicarage Road soured, and having been sacked, he eventually moved to Merseyside when the club elected to part with Sam Allardyce.
Silva led the Toffees to an eighth place finish in the league last season, and was knocked out of the FA Cup and Carabao Cup in the fourth and third rounds respectively.

In all he took charge of 59 matches as manager, winning 24 and losing 23.
Silva is the latest Premier League boss to be dismissed in the last few weeks – with Mauricio Pochettino and Unai Emery’s reigns at Tottenham and Arsenal respectively coming to an end so far this season

			
			PV: 
			0