South Korean and Tottenham player, Heung-Min Son, is often seen as a pure heart. A gentle heart who isn’t interested in hurting others. But the stats doesn’t say so, he currently tops the list of players gunning for the Red Card trophy (if there’s one). He has picked up two very critical red cards this season, no player in the EPL has gotten that far.

1. Heung-Min Son was sent off by VAR for aiming a kick at Chelsea defender Antonio Rudiger. And I have heard what Jose Mourinho had to say about it. It’s normal for him to offer Son his support. But he was damn wrong. Son was careless.

2. It’s such carelessness from his team mate that broke Andre Gomez’s leg. So I was happy with the red card he got.

3. Now with the reactions he gave after seeing Red. I take a quick flash back to the Andre Gomez situation. I’m now womdering if his tears that day was the genuine heartbreak of being a sweet angel that just broke someone’s leg. Or if he was tearing away for the Red he got.

4. Anyway, I am happy with the Red Card decision. That was a wreckless attack from the South Korean player.

5. Some players are unlucky. I thought about Ozil today and wondered what he went to do in the EPL. He is a fine player. Surely in the class of Iniesta, Fabregas and Xavi. Often he is attacked for not being very physical. But his critique must understand that iniesta was never a physical player. Yet he was one of the very finest midfielders of all time. They are not created to attack alone. They attack in 5s.

7. When Guadiola was Barca’s manager. The boys he had were soft, small and very light. Their strenght and philosophy was about keeping, moving and passing the ball. When they lost the ball. They are all quick to attack thr opponent player with the ball. About 5 players would soround the opponent with the football until they reclaim possession.

8. Ozil could still function for Manchester City. He is very talented. And a Barca standard.

9. Talking about Barca, I am excited about the news to get Neymar again. I am hopeful we will get him. He is also hopeful as well. Cos the truth is he needs Barca more.

10. Coutinho is loved at Bayern. I think they have him for keeps. Their marriage clicked. They would need a manager though. A good head and hand to help them back to their league standard.

11. And before I forget. It seems Lampard has now officially established his dominion over Mourinho. Twice they’ve met, twice Lampard won.

12. I do not believe Manchester United can return to being a top-4-club team again. And Arsenal is even a more sorry situation. They just seem to have the skin of a super club but their character and behaviour says otherwise.


			
			PV: 
			0