By Olanrewaju Adesanya

Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa,the Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker has said that Excellent Spirit is needed in the area of productivity for the nation to move forward.

Obasa, who spoke at the 17th Annual Thanksgiving of the Assembly Chapel with the theme  “Excellent Spirit” on Friday, said that the thanksgiving provided an opportunity for the Assembly community to appreciate God.

“This is an opportunity for us to appreciate God for all that He has done for us in 2019. We will continue to sing praises to God because He has been good to us.

“The theme of this year says “Excellent Spirit.” The story of Daniel in Daniel 5:11 shows what an excellent spirit is all about and Daniel 6:3 says Daniel was preferred over others.

“Everyone is looking for someone who is excellent in the society. We all want someone who can so things better.

“My wish is that God will grant you all excellent spirit as we leave here today. We should use the teachings of Pastor Wole Oladiyun to reshape our lives,” he said.

The Speaker prayed that God would turn the shame of those in attendance to honour and bless them abundantly.

Guest  minister at the service, Apostle Wole Oladiyun of Christ LivingSpring Apostolic Ministry (CLAM) told those in attendance that they could not achieve Excellent Spirit without God.

Oladiyun recalled that Daniel and others were offered many things in Babylon, but that they rejected the times as recorded in the Holy Bible.

He stated that God gave Daniel excellent spirit, and urged members of the Assembly community and the guests to examine and profile themselves for God to give them excellent spirit.

“Psalm 32: 8 enjoins us to listen to God. God is our advocate, our intercessor and our teacher.

“God will give you invention, new ideas and give you and your family members excellent spirit to receive brand new ideas for the New Year.

“We need the power of God to achieve the impossible and to make impossibilities possible. It could be impossible with men, but it is possible with God.

“Where science stops God starts. Elijah was caught up to heaven with the power of God and the wall of Jericho fell by the power of God.

“The life of Lagos, the water in Lagos and everything belong to God. We need some strange happenings in Lagos to make the state better,” he said.

The man of God then prayed fervently for the state and the state house of Assembly and anointed the wife of the Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Adejoke, who was in attendance, and Speaker Obasa for the purpose.

Earlier in his welcome address, the Patron of the programme for the year, Hon. Adedamola Richard Kasunmu said that the programme was one of the activities of the Christian fellowship of the Assembly to appreciate God for His mercies.

Going down memory lane, Kasunmu, representing Ikeja Constituency 2 in the Assembly, said that the thanksgiving outreach started in 2003 and that it has been an annual event.

“We appreciate the Speaker of the Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa for his constant support for the programme over the years.

“Let us continue to be guided by the teachings of our Lord Jesus Christ and learn to appreciate him in all that he has been doing for us.

“This year’s edition of the thanksgiving service is different because it coincides with the annual children party and annual get-together of the Assembly,” he said.

Guest artiste at the event was Dcns. Mojisola Adeniji and her Healing Band, while the Zonal Women Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief (Mrs.) Kemi Nelson, some traditional rulers and eminent personalities also graced the ceremony.

			
			PV: 
			0