A social activist and the Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land, Gani Adams, says he sees sanctions against Nigeria from world bodies in 2020
He also predicted that 2020 would be a year when President Muhammadu Buhari will throw more former governors and members of the opposition political parties in jail.
“I foresee a situation that the president would want to use anti-corruption to cow down most of the opposition and those who don’t believe in his cause. I foresee a situation where new party may come out within 2020 and 2021. I foresee the two main major party will break and new party will surface.
“I foresee a situation that more civil society groups will come out stronger. I foresee a situation where many people we thought were powerful, their secrets will be opened and the whole world would know that most of them are enemies of this country.
“From what happened in 2019, the international communities were not pleased with the process of our democracy. I foresee a sanction from United States of America; I foresee a sanction from EU.
According to him, if the federal government does not manage Nigeria’s international relations very well, the crisis between the government and the international community will be worse than the military because a statement that came from the spokesperson of the president that Nigeria is not answerable to the US, Britain and EU would generate a lot of annoyance.
“They control World Bank, they control IMF, they control United Nations about 99 per cent of the institutions that we use to govern, the whole world they control them.
“You are not answerable to them, but you get grant from them and they are selling world equipment to you. We would have witnessed another third world war if not for the United Nations.
“There’s an approval of budget of 30 billion dollars. Already Nigerian owes about N25 billion, the calculation of $30billion will almost get to N11 trillion.
“Definitely, the money the Federal Government is asking for, if the National Assembly grants the request, Nigeria will be owing almost N36 billion, and a country with that kind of debt is in bad shape.

			
			PV: 
			0