The Old Trafford club has never hidden their desire to bolster their attack in a bid to improve their firepower.
The departures of Romelu Lukaku and Alexis Sanchez to Inter Milan in January have forced United into the market for attacking reinforcements.
National Daily previously reported that United were considering the transfer of Mario Mandzukic as a short term solution to their attack challenge at the Old Trafford.
Mandzukic lack of competitiveness could halt his transfer to United
However, reports reaching National Daily now reveal that the fear that Mandzukic has not been competitive so far this season has caused the Red Devils have a rethink in their pursuit as they would prefer one who can easily fit in.
Sequel to the above, United have rather opted to intensify their efforts and bring in Red Bull Salzburg goal machine Erling Braut Haaland who has been the flavour of Europe this season with his goal scoring prowess.
Erling Haaland goal scoring prowess has seen him set records in Europe this season
The Norwegian striker has been a revelation at Red Bull Salzburg this season, scoring seven Champions League goals already this season amongst 26 goals in 18 games in all competitions.
Haaland’s form has put top European clubs on red-alert – and Norwegian newspaper Dagbladet says United are now ready to pull the trigger and make their move for the teenager.
Solskjaer is said to have put around the message that he wants a reunion with his former Molde striker at Old Trafford, with a move likely to materialise as early as next month or latest in the next summer transfer window.

Erling was a striker under Solskjaer at Molde

Haaland has already been named a key target by Solskjaer, who has outlined what he believes his worth to be to club bosses to put the wheels in motion for negotiations to begin.
The visit of Alf-Inge, Haaland to the Carrington recently has seen United staff believed that the transfer of his son to Old Trafford is a great possibility.
Meanwhile, Erling has recently outlined the impact of Solskjaer on his early career as he ponders a reunion with the man who handed him his senior debut.

			
			PV: 
			0