Manchester United changed their transfer strategy last summer when they decided a move for young British talents Harry Maguire, Aaron Wan-Bissaka and Daniel James.
United decided a move for young British talents during last transfer window
However, United fans have got reason to celebrate as their club has finally assured them of bringing in quality stars to Old Trafford in the transfer windows.
The Red Devils assistant manager Mike Phelan insists that the club remain intent on bringing in “superstar” players.
Mike Phelan insists that United remain committed to bringing in superstars to Old Trafford
It was a switch from signing high-profile names for significant outlays, with the likes of Alexis Sanchez and Angel Di Maria flopping at Old Trafford.

Some superstar players had ended as flops at United previously

United have since been tipped to move for more young homegrown players in the coming transfer windows but Phelan maintains they still want to bring in the very best.
“I think there has got to be a blend. I think Manchester United still do want superstars, but I think they still want to see them coming through and progressing and being part of something special,” Phelan told the Standard
 
“The fans are changing all the time. We’ve got senior fans, old age pensioners, young fans, but it’s become far more global than it’s ever been and I think all those people understand what Manchester United is all about otherwise they wouldn’t support them.
“They don’t just support them for the superstars, they support them because they can embrace the whole tradition of the football club.”

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has put his trust in Manchester United’s youngsters this term with Mason Greenwood and Brandon Williams in particular playing key roles.
And Phelan believes Old Trafford remains the best place for the development of players.
“I think the present crop of youngsters – and there are more than what they are seeing right now – I think the academy are doing is some really good work
“What they’ve got in a manager in Ole is someone that will give them every opportunity to play, which is great.”

			
			PV: 
			0