The Red Devils yet again dropped valuable points against another newly promoted EPL team on Sunday. This development has left fans question the caliber of Man United squad.
United produced yet another abysmal result against Aston Villa on Sunday
United’s executive-vice chairman Ed Woodward was compelled to explain why some players in Manchester United’s squad are being kept on – despite many observers deeming them not good enough for the club.
National Daily gathered that Woodward has been lambasted by many fans for United’s transfer dealings since he took charge in 2013.
Since that time – which coincided with the retirement of legendary manager Sir Alex Ferguson – United have spent huge sums on players who haven’t delivered the levels of success the club expects.
Ed Woodward has been criticized for United’s transfer dealings under him
Tension escalated at Old Trafford with further criticism targeted towards some United players who have been given new contracts despite being perceived as not good enough players for the Red Devils figure.
But as Woodward explains, “It’s a multi-year squad evolution analysis”.
Ah, that clears things up then – doesn’t it?
No? Well, it’s like this – in Sunday’s disappointing 2-2 draw at home to Aston Villa, United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer had to rely on Andreas Pereira and Fred in midfield, with first-choice pairing Paul Pogba and Scott McTominay injured.
Sadly, both Pereira and Fred have been criticised recently, with many questioning whether they and others in the squad are of the quality required for a club of United’s stature and history.
 
And yet Pereira and Phil Jones were rewarded with a new four-year deal in the summer National Daily learned.
Defender Phil Jones penned a deal of the same length back in February – yet he is another who has been criticised for his performance levels.
And he was the only player dropped from last week’s dismal draw with Sheffield United ahead of Sunday’s similarly dismal draw against Villa.
Woodward explaining United’s squad retention strategy in an interview with fanzine United We Stand pointed out that, due to the difficulty of signing the quality of players United need, the club were having to tie down others onto long deals.
“It’s a multi-year squad evolution analysis,” he said.
“It’s hard enough to get three players done in a transfer window. To get six or seven done is extremely difficult if you are getting proper talent.
“If you choose to churn every player because they are not good enough and you’re not extending contracts, you are putting yourself at risk of execution. Sometimes you have to take a broader view.”

The comments will surely not go down well with many fans who think the current crop of players are miserably short of the standards they had become accustomed to seeing from their heroes.

			
			PV: 
			0