Ediale Kingsley, the Oracle, has carefully analysed the predicted outcomes of tonight’s games. All you need to do is play the games. Bet responsibly. Don’t stake money you can’t lose. And to put your self in a good chance of winning. It’s better you bet on single games or 3 to 4 matches.

Club Brugge vs Real Madrid:
This is one of those groups that is already settled. We already have winners here — PSG and Real Madrid. So who will win? Real Madrid will win or draw. But Madrid will never lose this match. And the reason is not far fetched — Barca reserve team won Inter Milan in San Siro. This is first a direct challenge for Madrid. And just like Barca reserves, the young legs in Madrid are talented and really have points to prove to their manager.

— Madrid X2
— Over 2.5

PSG vs Galatasary:
PSG, like Real Madrid are already two legs into the next stage of the competition. So Galatasary have nothing to claim in this match as well. PSG will win because they are at home and Galatasary will travel for nothing in particular.

— PSG to win
— Over 2.5

Bayern Munich vs Tottenham:
Winners of this group will meet to claim no particular thing. They are already done and dusted. But they will both find the back of the net. And many goals will be recorded because they are an attacking side and it takes more stress to defend than to attack. Anybody can win. And it can also be draw. So the safe thing to do is get on Straight draw.

— BTTS
— Over 2.5

Olympiacos vs Red Star:
These clubs will be fighting for Europa Qualification slot. So it will be one of the few serious games to night.

— 1X
— BTTS
— Over 1.5

Shakter vs Atalanta:
I am one to always believe in the potential of Atalanta. But Shakter at home is also something else. Considering that a win tonight for Atalanta will put them in a position to qualify (i.e if Man City beats Zagreb), the Italian group may just extend their fine Serie A form. But Shakter may be too stubborn to allow them go. And that will lead to a straight draw.

— X2
— GG


Zagreb vs Man City 
Man City has qualified. But will they want to allow Zagreb win and risk another defeat? Won’t that be too much for their die-hard fans?

City will win or draw this one. But both team will score.

— 2X
— BTTS


Atletico vs Lokomotive:
Atletico need to win this one. They will win so they can qualify.

— Atletico Win
— Over 1.5

Leverkusen vs Juve:
Juventus has qualified, so this game means nothing to them. They aren’t even in a perfect form at home. So why should they win this one that Leverkusen needs to progress as well.

— 1x
— Over 1.5








			
			PV: 
			0