The Red Devils’ fans have every reason to celebrate as reports reaching National Daily reveal that United top transfer target Erling Haaland reportedly wants his future decided by Christmas.
Haaland could be a United player by January
The above revelation means that Manchester United who are reportedly believed to be in pole position to sign the Norwegian wonder kid will know in just one week whether they have won the race for his signature National Daily learnt.
The Red Bull Salzburg forward has been the subject of intense speculation in recent months, following some world-class displays in the Champions League.
Though Haaland, the son of Alf-Inge, has also been linked with a move to Germany, with RB Leipzig keen on signing the 19-year-old, Manchester United however remain one of the favourites for his signature, with Haaland understood to want to play in the Premier League.

Recall that Alf-Inge was recently at United’s Carrington. A visit that fueled Haaland’s transfer speculations to Old Trafford.
Solskjaer has not hidden his desire to reunite with Haaland
Haaland is reported to have a £17million release clause, meaning it is entirely up to the Norwegian which club he joins.
And Bild via SportWitness is reporting that the striker will make up his mind before Christmas, making for a smooth transfer to his desired destination once January arrives National Daily further gathered.
Meanwhile, it has been revealed to National Daily that Leipzig sporting director Markus Krosche confirmed the German club have also made an offer to sign Haaland.
Krosche told Kicker “We have shown what we can offer him and which part he could play in our team. It’s now up to him.
Furthermore, coach Julian Nagelsmann confirmed last week he had personally met with Haaland in a bid to convince him to sign.
He said: “I tried to explain to him in good English what my idea of football is. I think it went quite well.
“You can say relatively little after such conversations, because they are usually very one-sided. You say a lot as a coach while the agent and the player mostly listen.”

			
			PV: 
			0