The Emirates club fired Unai Emery as Arsenal manager on friday after a long poor run of form and hence the urgent need to replace the former coach.
Many notable coaches have been rumoured to take over at the Emirates. National Daily however gathered from reports that Arsenal chiefs want Mikel Arteta as a replacement for Emery.
This development has left many Gunners fans reacting as some would have preferred a more experienced and proven coach to manage things at the Emirates.
Areteta is Manchester City’s assistant and has emerged as the first-choice of the Gunners’ hierarchy as they seek to replace one Spanish boss with another.
Arsenal chiefs want Arteta as their next permanent manager
National Daily further learnt that the former Arsenal midfielder is keen on the move and Pep Guardiola, who may have blocked the switch, is open to Arteta furthering his career in frontline management.
Arteta came close to succeeding Arsene Wenger during 2018 close season when he was favourite for the job.
However, former Gunners’ chief executive Ivan Gazidis intervened and the casting vote went in Emery’s favour. Gazidis has since moved on to AC Milan and there is a strong Spanish influence at Arsenal in the shape of head of football Raul Sanllehi.
He wants to retain that and will know all about Arteta as the former Everton man started out his career in Catalonia with Barcelona..
Under different circumstances Manchester City would not be able to let Arteta go but Guardiola appears to have an ideal replacement for Arteta waiting in the wings.
That is former Gunner Giovanni van Bronckhorst who has been working for the City Group since the summer and is spending increasingly more time at the Etihad.
Guardiola already slated Giovanni van Bronckhorst as a perfect replacement for Arteta
Manchester City rank van Bronckhorst highly, he won five trophies in his own right during a four-year spell at Feyenoord.
He was also close to the job with New York City before Patrick Vieira was installed.
One man who won’t be linking up with the north Londoners however, is Ajax’s manager Erik ten Hag.
His impressive run to the semi-finals of the Champions League last season with a youthful side has had suitors at Europe’s biggest knocking at the door of the Amsterdam club.
But Arsenal look to have been gazumped in their pursuit of ten Hag by Bayern Munich who have lined him up as their new man.
Arsenal look to have been gazumped by Bayern Munich in their pursuit of Erik ten Hag
That partly explains why Arsene Wenger’s application to take over for the long-term at the Allianz Arena was a non-starter.
Ten Hag speaks fluent German – criteria demanded by the Barvarian club. He has also worked for two years with the club’s reserve team.
Arsenal cannot come close to landing ten Hag for that reason – and also the fact that he wants to test himself in the Champions League next season.
 
 




			
			PV: 
			0