Manchester United have enjoyed a boisterous attack lately with the Marcus Rashford, Daniel James and Anthony Martial causing a menace for opponents defence.
Recall that Pep Guardiola recently admitted his side’s inability to cope with the deadly pace of the above trio in their last weekend defeat to the Red Devils at the Etihad stadium.
Now, United can be boastful of yet another prolific attacker in their ranks as manager Solskjaer has reserved praises for his teenage striker Mason Greenwood while likening him to United legend Wayne Rooney.
Wayne Rooney remains United all-time top scorer
National Daily gathered that Solskjaer has seen Greenwood as one of best natural finishers he has seen after his double in Europa League win over AZ Alkmaar while pointing out how he can improve.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer claims Mason Greenwood is “a nightmare” for defenders after the teenage striker scored his first double for Manchester United.
Greenwood’s brace helped United beat AZ Alkmaar to qualify for Europa League last 32 as group winners
Greenwood’s two goals in a 4-0 win over AZ Alkmaar helped United finish top of their Europa League group, and he is the club’s second highest scorer with six.
Solskjaer is delighted with the 18-year-old, although he claims he needs to work on his heading National Daily further learnt.
“I’ve probably said it all before, there’s nothing new,” said the United boss. “He scored two tonight and tomorrow in training he will go and score a few more.
“He’s always done it. It’s just natural for him, he’s a natural footballer.
“The closer he gets to the goal, the more dangerous he is. Right foot, left foot, he’s a nightmare for defenders.
“I think he needs to develop his heading if he is going to be a proper striker.
“I’ve seen a few good young strikers. I played with Wazza (Wayne Rooney). As a natural finisher, he’s one of the best I have seen.
“I’m not afraid of playing him in the Premier League, not at all. It’s about finding the right path for him. Of course, he’s ready.”

			
			PV: 
			0