Veteran Nollywood actor, Segun Arinze, is currently being attacked for what he allegedly did to his house boy.

Although he tried to clarify on what exactly happened between him and the said housemaid. But he ended up telling the world that he slapped his domestic staff and that still didn’t go well with some social media commentators.

In reacting to the viral video of his alleged assault on his security guard in Lagos. As the actor was seen in a footage presently trending on social media chasing his security guard identified as Isaiah Dauda on the streets of Chevyview Estate, Lekki.

And in that video he almost crushed the boy with his car. A Twitter user @CloakedAdonis had posted the video with a caption alleging that the actor assaulted his domestic staff for breaking the burglary of his house and also for using his car without his permission.

“He said the boy removed the burglary proof and used his car without informing him or so,”@CloakedAdonis tweeted.

However, speaking with pressmen, Arinze, a former president of the Actors’ Guild of Nigeria, said he was not a trouble maker and that he couldn’t have taken to the street to assault his security guard.

He said, “Isaiah has been working with me for over a year, I take him as a younger brother and I never treated him like a staff; but his excesses are too much.

“He leaves his duty post at will without informing anyone in the house.

“He left the gate open unguarded countless times. I have spoken, counselled, gotten angry many times, to no avail.

“On Sunday, he left the house without informing me; he returned on Monday afternoon, saying he went for a party and forgot my gate key at his friend’s house.

“At that point, I couldn’t bottle up my anger any longer, so, I slapped him.”

Continuing, Arinze said, “It is sad that the man who filmed the incident couldn’t spare some time to ask what led to the public outrage.

“Everybody in the neighbourhood knows me as a peace-loving resident.”

An anonymous commenter said, “You just confirmed what the video portrayed. It is not why you did it but the fact that you did. It is bad. You slapped your staff? Kudos to you then. You believe that slapping your staff is lawful. You are so wrong”.



			
			PV: 
			0