Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, as usual, arrived early to Carrington for training less than 12 hours after leaving Old Trafford following United’s disappointing 2-2 draw with Aston Villa, which left them ninth in the Premier League.

Solksjaer arrived Carrington on Monday, but was met by a frozen lock at the back entrance gate pix

National Daily learnt that unfortunately for Solskjaer, he was forced to wait on a freezing cold morning in the north west, after being met by a frozen lock at the back entrance gate.
That came after temperatures in parts of the city plummeted to -5°C during the night.

Workers were contacted to cut off the frozen lock

As such, security staff at United’s training base had to call in workers to cut off the frozen lock, before Solskjaer could enter and get down to business, ahead of his team’s arrival later.

United fans can only hope that their gaffer’s Monday morning unfortunate experience is not an omen for the week ahead especially as they gear up to reunite with Jose Mourinho on Wednesday evening, when he returns to the Old Trafford but with his Tottenham side.

Mourinho returns to the Old Trafford for the first time with his Tottenham squad after his United departure last year

Amazingly, Spurs now sit fifth in the table, two points ahead of United, after back-to-back league wins under the Portuguese.

Meanwhile, United would have occupied the fifth position had they conceded to Tyrone Mings in the second half on Sunday.
Speaking on Sunday night, Solskjaer admitted he remains unconcerned by United’s current position in the Premier League table National Daily learnt.
“I wouldn’t have sat here and talked about us being fifth if we had got that one goal extra, so the league table at this point is not the biggest concern because it is so tight,” he said.
“I just need to make sure that we get performances and get three or four performances after each other – and results.
“What I can say is so far we have had the lead in so many games and we haven’t been able to win those games; six or seven times we’ve been 1-0 up, or 2-1 or 3-2 like last week (a 3-3 draw at Sheffield United).
“We should be better at seeing those games into wins.
“I think there is loads of evidence these boys are closer to winning games than losing games.”
After the reunion with Mourinho it’s the small case of the Manchester derby on Saturday at the Etihad.
Things can only get better from here. Can’t they?
 




			
			PV: 
			0