Cristiano Ronaldo spent remarkable six years at Old Trafford when he joined United in 2003 from Sporting CP.
Since Ronaldo’s exit when he joined Real Madrid in 2009, United have struggled to replace the Portuguese talisman.
United have struggled to replace Ronaldo since his departure ten years ago
However, report reaching National Daily has come as a comfort to United fans as Ole Gunnar Solskjær has encouraged comparisons between Marcus Rashford and Cristiano Ronaldo and admitted the England forward has the ability to emulate his predecessor at Manchester United.
Rashford has been tipped by Solskjaer to emulate Ronaldo
Rashford has been in a form of his life lately with a glaring improvement with his movement with the ball. His recent goal against Tottenham is a testimony to his rapid maturity with the ball. Meanwhile, he owes most of his revival to Solskjaer.
His penalty in the victory over Manchester City in Saturday’s derby took him to double figures in the Premier League for only the second time in his career despite more than half of the season remaining.
With 16 goals for club and country so far the 22-year-old Rashford is enjoying by far his most prolific campaign since breaking into United first team under Louis van Gaal in 2016, having been utilised mainly off the left flank by Solskjær and the England manager, Gareth Southgate.
Rashford has been in a devastating form in United attack lately
Asked whether the England international performances in the victories over Tottenham and City had reminded him of the Juventus and Portugal forward Ronaldo, who scored 118 goals in 292 appearances for United between 2003 and 2009, Solskjær said: “It’s very easy to compare the two of them, yes. Both with skills, body shape, attitude, attributes – everything.
The boy has every chance in the world to become a top, top player. Let’s hope he continues like this.” National Daily learnt.
With United already assured of qualification for the last 32 of the Europa League, Rashford is likely to be rested for Thursday’s meeting with AZ Alkmaar at Old Trafford, having racked up 13 goals in 21 appearances in all competitions this season.
.
 




			
			PV: 
			0