Political stakeholders in Ikeja Federal constituency and others loyal to Hon James Faleke,representing them at the Federal House of Representatives have reaffirmed their commitment to his political progression for years to come,as they staged a two hours walk, tagged Walk for Faleke at 60.

The health trek which started from  Ojodu Berger bus stop at exactly 8am was brought  to a halt at the Onigbongbo Local Council Development Area LCDA at 10am.

The Council boss of Onigbongbo LCDA Mr. Babatunde Oke Francis while speaking with newsmen stated the importance of fitness trek,adding that the celebrant is also passionate about the peoples welfare


“Personally it is a good thing and we are used to in this local government,it is a monthly thing and today’s own is a special one,special in the sense that we are doing it unbehalf of our Federal House of Representatives in the person of Honourable James Faleke.

“We have elected him three times and I am happy that he is our representative,we will continue to support him wherever he chose,if he still wants to go back we are ready for him it is not too late.

“He is our leader and he has been doing it well. When somebody is doing it well what stops you from continuing to support him as our representative?

“That is the purpose of today’s walk and this just the beginning.

“We have another programme for tomorrow,next tomorrow till the 25th when we would be celebrating his birthday. Here on Tuesday we want to celebrate him by opening this road and our Secretariat.

The Vice Chairman Ojodu LCDA Reverend Olumuyiwa notes that it is a remarkable day celebrating an Icon.

“Somebody that has been tested and trusted,he played very good politics that you cannot compare to others that have served in the local government.

“You can see the followership today we have grand plan to mark his birthday,this walk for fitness is part of it,he believes in good health for everybody that’s why are doing this exercise today,so that everybody can keep fit.

“We are grateful to Asiwaju for giving us that kind of leader that is more or less interested in service to the people.

“He has touched the lives of so many people,he promoted us that is why you are seeing us here today, we are grateful to God,to Faleke and of course under the tutelage of Chief Mrs.Kemi Nelson,Baba Eto, Cardinal James Odunbaku and Dr. Finni we are very thankful to them for giving us James Abiodun Faleke.

“He gave  employment opportunities to more than 50 people, that informs this to thank him for what he has done for the people of Ikeja local government in general.”

Honourable Segun Olulade one of the guest Speaker for the Tuesday interactive session was quick to note that the personality in question have unique features that signals service to humanity.

“When you see Honourable James Abiodun Faleke,he is the face of APC in at the National Assembly, you will see his activities at the National Assembly and you will know that this is a legislator that worths being heard and emulated.

“As an individual and a former lawmaker in Lagos State.I can say authoritatively that I benefited a lot from his wealth of experience at the legislative chamber.

“You will also understand that Honourable James Abiodun Faleke contributions in Lagos state can never be quantified because you can see the level of his connectivity with the grassroots politician,he is somebody loved by all.

“If people can start trekking from Ojodu Berger down to Ikeja to Onigbongbo you can understand the kind of love they are showing to this man,a one week programme designed to celebrate him,he is an enigma,someone that one can easily identify with.

“I am the guest speaker on Tuesday and a lot of people are going to hear more about his relevance.

Mr.Wale Ajala an All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholder also hinted that the programmes marking the Federal lawmaker’s 60th birthday are centred on imparting the people  positively.

“On Sunday we will be having three Church services,Monday we will be empowering 1000 people each from the three local governments,making 3000 people in all,on Tuesday we will be having a talk show for him then on Saturday we will be having parties across the three local governments.”















			
			PV: 
			0