From Timaya, to Hush Puppy, and others it has been a verbal war. And what’s even more interesting is the fact that the musicians are fighting about who wears what and not.

A Nollywood actor, Uche Maduagwu was right when he said 90 per cent of his colleagues in the industry wear ‘bend down’ select clothes. According to him, he knows and could mention names of superstars who patronize these cheap cloth dealers of used clothes.

In case you are reading this and you just arrived from Pluto, Okirika or Bend Down Select clothes means clothes of second-hand value. That is, clothes already used and won by mostly foreigners that were shipped into the country for cheap sales.

“I am surprised to see some actors fooling people around on red carpet that they were styled by one designer or showing photos of their expensive clothes when it is from a bend down select’ he said.

According to him, what most actors do is tell their personal assistant to go select particular foreign and expensive designer clothes. He said the actors will do an online search of designer clothes, then take pictures from the internet to their bend down the select supplier.

So back to Timaya and co. Before they were all-stars they all couldn’t afford the expensive wears they talk about now. But Timaya would prefer those who can’t afford this expensive wears to rather just be themselves. That is they should rather wear their regular tailored clothes than make copies of designers.

He sparked the war when he voiced out that bloggers shouldn’t add him to top celebrities with great fashion styles because those other celebs wear fake stuff. Soon he was attacked by Hush Puppy who said Timaya was among such fake people about three years ago.

And Timaya has now told him to keep quiet, ‘we don’t talk to people who are on exile’ he said. That was a direct shade at Hush Puppy who is currently running away from EFCC.

And so the war of wears continues.

Inetimi Timaya Odon (born 15 August 1977), better known by his stage name Timaya, is a Nigerian singer and songwriter. He is the founder of DM Records Limited. His solo career began in 2005 with the release of “Dem Mama”, which also appeared on his debut album, True Story released the following year. His second album Gift and Grace was released in 2008. Timaya is also credited from discovering Patoranking. This is not the first time he is involved in a verbal war.

He was involved in a verbal brawl with Eedris Abdukareem a while back. He blasted the Jaga-Jaga crooner for daring to talk about him. In that shade, Timaya called Eedris a crack head. Just in the beginning of the rise of Timaya, he was caught in a squabble web with his then sweetheart, Empress Njamah. In one of such stories, Timaya went to her church to demand a car he bought for the actress.

			
			PV: 
			0