A reputable business mogul,Chief Folorunsho Olatunji Ajayi,the newly installed Aare Jagunmolu of Oke Ogbere land in Isolo by the His Royal Highness, Osolo of Isolo Alhaji Sheikh Abdulkabir Akolawole Agbabiaka,Secretary of Lagos State Council of Obas and Chiefs,has stated that being bestowed with chieftaincy title is not rituals as widely believed.

Chief Ajayi made the disclosure while in a chat with newsmen after his installation at the palace of the Osolo of Isolo.

He narrated how his perception about the chieftaincy concept has tilted to the positive, from a negative point of view due to a close watch of his wife,who was also installed year before as Yeye Meso of Oke Ogbere land.

The precise and soft spoken chief stated that he used to see it as a fetish thing that a Christian should not embrace,owing to the possible ritualistic trappings but seeing his wife getting better even after the installation encouraged him when the idea was posed.

“The title means a lot to me,this is the first time I have received such honour,I do appreciate it and it is just okay for me.

“Absolutely I cannot leave my wife out of this,Chief Mrs Lucy Omosefe Ajayi because she has been given a title before in the same place,probably they felt that it is also important to bestow this on me.

“I appreciate and I think it means a lot and we are going to do our best in whatever way we are going to help the community,we will do that.

“As I was told and informed that it is an honorary chieftaincy title so I just felt it is something to honour me and not way out of my believe as a Christian.

“I think I am convinced,I also encourage others to embrace it,it is not fetish as they,myself and my parents believed.

“After my was installed as Yeye Meso of Oke Ogbere land and most recently Yeye Oge of Ado kingdom,I followed her closely and knew there was really nothing fetish about it,it’s just honorary and no big deal pertaining to rituals.

“The title in itself depicts  a warrior, a fighter,it is just by being steadfast in whatever you are doing,how you are going to approach things,you need to be dogged”.
Said Ajayi.

The new chief noted that whenever duty calls for the course of Oke Ogbere land and Isolo kingdom,he will not hesitate to offer his best.

“I would give my best wherever they need help from me,if I am called upon,I will definitely render what I can do for them.”Ajayi pledge.

The installation rites were strictly observed by the Osolo,Baales and chiefs as family and friends of the Ajayi’s all cladded in wine coloured or touch of red attire all converged in the kings palace to celebrate the new Aare Jagunmolu.

The event was later rounded off with a special reception at the palacial residence of the Ajayi’s,there are lots to eat and assorted drinks for all,as the Royal Music band were on hand to entertain everyone present with melodious tunes.

Royalty resonates all around the Ajayi’s as the new Chief,flanked by his wife Chief Lucy Ajayi,the Chief Executive  Officer and Executive Director of Lagos International Trade Fair Complex,beaming with smiles of a fulfillment.

The Baale of Oke Ogbere land,Alhaji Tajudeen Orilowo Ganiyu who was the initiator of the idea,earlier noted that the installation was in commemoration of the annual celebration of Oke Ogbere day.




			
			PV: 
			0