By Olanrewaju Adesanya

A Lagos federal lawmaker,piqued by the ugly gasfire that broke out in his constituency is set to move a motion for regulation and monitoring of indiscriminate establishment of gas plants across the nation.
Hon. Kolawole Taiwo representing Ajeromi Federal Constituency at the Federal House of Representatives made the disclosure,  while chatting with newsmen over the weekend.

It will be recalled that, the gasfire broke out at Ajegunle in Ajeromi-Ifelodun local government on Tuesday 26th of November,when someone made a call close to an unidentified gas retail store.

According to lawmaker as at Saturday five people have been confirmed dead with many hapless others sustaining various degree of burns in state health institutions.

The lawmaker said that no amount of succour could be given to the affected constituents if the issue could not be holistically addressed.

Citing the indiscriminate siting of gas plants in residential areas, instead of industrial areas as the root cause of the sad development.

In his words,”it is good for us that people at the local level are now embracing gas as a cheaper,safer and cleaner means of cooking without spoiling your pots easily.

“As it reduce the unnecessary feeling of trees for cooking which pose much harmful effect on climate change,this also reduce the pressure on kerosene an important fuel for airplane.

“However, gas is highly inflammable and our people demand on it is on the increase,so entrepreneurs now site mini gas plants indiscriminately, across major cosmopolitan cities of Nigeria,which pose grave danger on the locals.

” I had to rush down here when I learnt about the development few days ago through barage of calls from my constituents and what I saw was heart rendering.

“Five individuals confirmed dead while others burnt beyond recognition, there was even a lady aside the one reported in the pages of the newspaper,who had all parts of her body affected by the gasfire.”

Hon Kolawole hinted that,”come Tuesday when I get back to the National Assembly, I will meet with Mr Speaker,to see how this motion can fly.

“I am raising a matter of national importance for regulation and monitoring of setting up gasplants,we cannot blame the people for embracing gas power.
“I saw a lady,there is no part of her body that was not affected,I became so emotional,another indigent family whose child was affected even told me when I visited the hospital that they had to pay 2000 naira for a particular drug every seven hours.
“It is that pathetic, I urge the Federal Agency in charge of Emergency to intervene in given respite by spending some money for the rehabilitation and restoration of the victims.
“The economic crunch is biting,it is a terrible situation and I can only cushion the effect,I cannot really touch them as they really wanted,the federal government should come to our aid,we are down trodden in Ajeromi,we need help.

He urged landlords to shun the pecuniary gains and consider safety when given permission for siting of gasplants in residential areas,noting that even those corporate entities siting gasplants have it cordoned in restricted areas with enough guard.

Kolawole also lauds Mr Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu promptness in wading in on the matter,”he promised to foot the hospital bills to reduce their trauma,the local government chairman has also been proactive right from the time it happened and I appreciate that as well.

” He even promised to kick start an enlightenment campaign to sensitize the people on the matter and this is also commendable.

“We need to force the establishment of gasplants in industrial areas,then you can have retail points where already filled cylinders can be exchanged with empty ones,not the one where you refill and expose gas to the air.” Kolawole reiterated.

He added that managing emergency is a serious issue, which has to be replicated through the Federal,state and local government as it is in the concurrent and residual list.



			
			PV: 
			0