Jose Mourinho aimed a subtle dig at his former club Manchester United following Tottenham’s 2-1 defeat at Old Trafford National Daily gathered.
Marcus Rashford netted twice for the home side, with Dele Alli scoring a stunner in between, as United leapfrogged Spurs in the Premier League.
National Daily learnt Mourinho spoke to the press after his first defeat as Tottenham boss, and couldn’t help aim a dig at United, suggesting the Red Devils are no longer a big team.

“United results against the best teams this season have been good; Chelsea, Liverpool, Leicester” said Mourinho.
“For the way they play it is easier for them. They are not afraid to have a defensive approach.
“It is easier for them against better teams, against teams who want more of the ball.”
The man who replaced Mourinho at United, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, also spoke to the press following the fixture.
He said: “You are always happy when you win. The boys are learning and improving all the time but tonight we were fantastic for long, long spells.”
He added: “The three points are massive for us. We’ve had too many draws this season and given too many points away from winning positions.
“It’s a great lesson the last two games [Sheffield United and Aston Villa] and we came back in a great manner.
“We’ve started the rebuilding. We’ve made decisions that we had to and we’re looking to build this club to be better again and I can’t think short-term when I’m trying to do that.
“When we turn the corner and win three or four games on the run, they will get that Man United feeling
On the match-winner, Rashford, Solskjaer said: “It’s the best he’s had under me. He was mature, strong against good Premier League players.
“His penalty was calm and composed, and his [first] goal, we know he’s got those strikes in him and he had three or four chances.
“It’s like he was back on the playground or in the back garden. We want them to have fun, there’s nothing dangerous out there – just 75,00 people, wanting to see the best [of them].”
On the match-winner, Rashford, Solskjaer said: “It’s the best he’s had under me. He was mature, strong against good Premier League players.
“His penalty was calm and composed, and his [first] goal, we know he’s got those strikes in him and he had three or four chances.
“It’s like he was back on the playground or in the back garden. We want them to have fun, there’s nothing dangerous out there – just 75,00 people, wanting to see the best [of them].”
Marcus Rashford opened the scoring for the Red Devils with a powerful effort that beat Paulo Gazzaniga at the near post.
Dele Alli equalised for Tottenham with a stunning goal following a clever flick in the area.

But it was Rashford once again who ensured United would be taking all three points from the match with the game’s third and final goal from the penalty spot.
The win sees Man United leapfrog Tottenham in the Premier League table.

			
			PV: 
			0