The Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) may have demystified President Muhammadu Buhari over claimed achievements in restoring security in the country. The guerilla fighters displayed their inhuman activities in the execution of innocent citizens who were in their captivity in northeast Nigeria. President Buhari, however, on Friday expressed shock and sadness over the murder of those Nigerians by ISAWP. The president appealed to Nigerians not to let terrorists divide the country along religious lines.
President Buhari in a statement declared: “I am profoundly saddened and shocked by the death of innocent hostages in the hands of remorseless, godless, callous gangs of mass murderers that have given Islam a bad name through their atrocities
“We should, under no circumstance, let the terrorists divide us by turning Christians against Muslims because these barbaric killers don’t represent Islam and millions of other law-abiding Muslims around the world.
“As a President, the collective security of all Nigerians is my major preoccupation and the death of an innocent Christian or Muslim distresses me.’’
President chided the terrorists for disrupting the security of the country without clearly defined agenda except the pursuit of evil through indiscriminate murder of innocent citizens, contrary to the teachings of Islam, which does not approve killings.
“No true Muslim would be shouting ‘Allahu Akbar’ while killing innocent people, an evil frequently condemned by the Holy Qur’an.’’
“These agents of darkness are enemies of our common humanity and they don’t spare any victim, whether they are Muslims or Christians, and therefore, we shouldn’t let them divide us and turn us against one another.
“The goal of these psychopaths is to cause confusion and spread distrust between Muslims and Christians, despite the fact that they aren’t representing the interest of Muslims or Islam.
“While I condemn this evil, I wish to reassure Nigerians that this administration will not lower its guards in the war against terrorism, and we will continue to intensify our efforts towards strengthening international cooperation and collaboration to break the backbone of these evildoers,’’ President Buhari had declared.
The President demanded Nigerians to be united against terrorists and avoid unhelpful conspiracy theories that serve the interest of Boko Haram terrorists and ISWAP.

			
			PV: 
			0