The Nigeria Police on Sunday revealed the arrest of a pastor of a white garment church n Ogun State, Segun Philip,  42 years, and  a young man of 23 years old, Adeeko Owolabi, over the murder of a final year sociology student of the Lagos State University, Favour Daley-Oladele.
The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of  Ogun State Police Command, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, in a statement narrated that on receiving the report of the missing student, the DPO Mowe Division, SP Marvis Jayeola, directed his crack detectives to unravel the mystery behind the sudden disappearance of the lady.
The PPRO highlighted: “the detectives then went into full scale technical and forensic investigation of the case and their efforts paid off when the movement of the deceased was traced to a white garment church in Ikoyi-Ile, in Osun State.
“On getting to the church, the self-acclaimed pastor, was promptly arrested but he informed the detectives that the girl was brought to him by her boyfriend, Adeeko Owolabi.”
The Police Added that the boyfriend was traced and apprehended immediately.
The final year LASU student was reported to have left home to an unknown destination on 8th December 2019, and since then did not return home.
Her disappearance was subsequently reported to the Mowe Police Station, Ogun State, by her parents.
The Police maintained that on interrogation, Adeeko Owolabi, confessed that the deceased was his girlfriend and that he lured her to Ikoyi-Ile where he perfected plans with the so-called pastor Segun Philip to use her for money rituals.
He stated further that while the girl was sleeping, the pastor gave him a pestle with which he used to smash her head.
The girlfriend further narrated that the pastor quickly used a knife to cut off her neck, he ripped open her chest and removed her heart which he used in preparing a concoction for him and his mother to eat.
On further interrogation, Owolabi confessed that he was under pressure to engage in the dastard act because things were not going well with his parents financially and when he sought assistance from the pastor, he was asked to bring a human being for that purpose and the available person at that time was his girlfriend.
The Ogun State Commissioner of Police, CP Kenneth Ebrimson, ordered immediate transfer of the suspects to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for proper investigation.
The CP who described the gruesome murder of the deceased as a superlative degree of wickedness. He vowed to ensure that all the suspects face the full wrath of the law.

			
			PV: 
			0