The American Business Council has described the Nigeria’s business environment as complex in terms of advocacy and ease of doing business.
Executive Secretary and Chief Executive Officer of the American Business Council, Margaret Olele, said that a lot can be done to ease ways businesses are done in Nigeria.
Olele, who made this known at an award event organised by the council in Lagos, disclosed the plans of the Council to collaborate with the Government in different sectors of the economy.
She said the council plans to support in building the right capacity while making businesses a lot more seamless for United States companies that operate in Nigeria.
The American Business Council CEO further revealed that the council was willing to embark on a project to recognise partners of the council.
“First, we are very much into trade and investment opportunities between the US and Nigerian Government and strive to advocate for US companies operating in Nigeria.
“We work with partners to help create an enabling business environment whether it is regulatory or policy issues, we try to do what we can to ensure that there is a very favourable business environment. So these are our partners who help and support us in doing this as well.”
Speaking about what 2020 would bring at the event held in recognition of members, who have supported the council over the course of the year, the President of the American Business Council, Dipo Faulkner said the council would continue to dwell on advocacy while working on business interests of American companies.
“We will continue with the same thrust of the council. Advocacy, we speak with the voice of the American business in Nigeria, and we do it basically through advocacy, help them settle in, plan the territory they are going to work in as well as other business interests of the American companies.
“We don’t do this alone, we do this with the US mission in Nigeria via the embassy, the Consul General, she is here, supporting us very strongly as well as the US chamber of Commerce,” Faulkner said.

			
			PV: 
			0