As ill-health took the life of Samuel Alabi, aka Alabi Yellow, eulogies haven’t stopped pouring in.

Foluke Daramola still pours some words of ode to the thespian, “Goodnight Alabi Yellow, indeed we have lost another veteran actor. But what has made me really sad tonight was watching the news on channels when I came back from location”.

The actor is also quick to drag the media in for negligence, “Today is the first time media houses will acknowledge how much Alabi Yellow has invested in the make-believe world. I’m sure this is the 1st and about the last time he will be acknowledged as an actor”.

The actor feels the media and people, in general, should always celebrate these persons when they are alive.

She concluded with the following lines:

“This is what PARA stands for, let’s celebrate and appreciate our veterans while they are alive and bubbly not when they are dead. Good night baba Alabi Yellow”.

Samuel Alabi Oludayo Akinpelu, popularly known as Alabi Yellow, was a veteran in the tinsel world. He died early Sunday in his Ikorodu, Lagos, home aged 62.

And the news of his death was hard to believe because he just recently featured in Kunle Afolayan’s latest movie, ‘Mokalik’ and did not show any signs of illness. He is the author of a Yoruba literature book, ‘A Ba Oko Ku’ which has been included in the curriculum for pupils in junior secondary school. He was a professional actor for over four decades.

Foluke Daramola-Salako is a Nigerian actress. She was nominated for Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role in 2013. She was born on February 15. She is a graduate of Obafemi Awolowo University. In 1998, she made her film debut in a series titled Palace. She also starred in Durodola and Above Law. In 2016, her daughter was reported to be the host of a reality television show. Her film, Cobweb, which she produced and starred in got her Africa Movie Academy Awards best-supporting actress nomination. She noted that the film was inspired by her personal experiences, as her parents didn’t want her to delve into acting while in school. She is the founder of the “Action Against Rape in Africa” initiative, which is a movement that seeks to curb rape and bring its perpetrators to book in Africa.

In recent times, Nigerians have lost some of her notable stars to illness and poor health conditions. However last year seemed to be the year we lost more stars the most. It was a sad one for the entertainment industry and Nigerians at large. As veterans and highly famous stars passed away.

The deaths of stars like Baba Sala, Chike Osuji, Ezeora Nelson Oluchukwu, Okwu Chukwujekwu, Chukwudi Bambino, Chris Ekejimbe, OAP Tosyn Bucknor, actress Aisha Abimbola, Uduak Akrah, Nora Nkiruka Ugo, and singer Ras Kimono broke the hearts of a lot of the fans. They shall be greatly missed.

While they were alive they did all they could to make their fans entertained.


			
			PV: 
			0