She was born a Muslim, grew within Islamic injunctions and started adult life as a Muslim. Ironically, life was miserable to her as a Muslim, compelling her to migrate from Iran, her birth place, to Turkey; then in Turkey, she was a victim of Muslim persecution, there she was imprisoned. This woman is Annahita Parsan. She is today not just a Christian but a preacher of the gospel Christ and leader of two Churches in Sweden; Parsan in five years converted over 1,500 Muslims to Christianity.  Annahita Parsan grew into a life of gender abuse and domestic violence in her marriage. She grew from a hopeless life situation into a miserable union of constant abuse in Iran.
Annahita Parsan was indoctrinated in the Muslim culture of low social-economic-status (SES), but anticipating that a good husband in marriage would change her status. Faith was unfair to her; Parsan found a husband but the man died suddenly in an accident. She was left in pains. Then, her a second marriage caused her more agony, the husband was violent, assaulting her at will without modicum of human decorum.
Parsan was not discouraged in her aspiration for better life. She simply absorbed her chaotic marriage as someone “Living in Darkness in Muslim Iran.”
Parsan acknowledged that the then husband did beat with a shovel; inflicted bruises and cuts all over her body; she was battered to frustrating point that she decided to commit suicide. God watching over her because of the purpose she was created, God protected and saved her; she survived after taking poisonous pills.
She was filled with optimism that she would get out of the crisis.
Then Annahita Parsan took her husband and children and fled Iran through the mountains into Turkey.
In Turkey she encountered persecution which ultimately took her to prison
Regaining freedom, Parsan continued her journey to Denmark in Europe. There she divorced her abusive husband, while the gospel was ministered to her for the first time. Thereafter, she relocated to Sweden; in Sweden Parsan and her two children went into a church and prayed; then declared: “We are Christians from now on.” That was the beginning of her salvation and Christianity indoctrination.
From being ministered the gospel, Annahita Parsan became minister of the gospel, winning souls and more followers into the Christendom. Record shows that Annahita Parsan had led over 1,500 Muslims to Christ. She was also leader of two churches, training members of other churches how to spread the gospel and win over Muslim believers. She pulls crowd of Muslims hungry for ‘the God who loves’ fill her church each Sunday. Parsan has profound belief in Jeremiah 49: 39 – “But in the latter days I will restore the fortunes of Elam, declares the Lord.”
“It is about Elam and Elam is Persian. “And when I read that, I know that it’s about us. It’s about all their life and it’s amazing. God told Jeremiah at that time, and it’s happening just now,” Parsan acknowledged.
Then, Annahita Parsan faced another risk from Muslim immigration which made Sweden a home for dangerous radicals. She was gathered to have complained that she receives death threats; causing her live with panic that she could be killed.
Sweden “…is a free country. But it’s dangerous, too,” Parsan was cited to have remarked while expressing phobia that she may be killed by Islamists in Sweden.



			
			PV: 
			0