After celebrating its momentous centenary year in 2019, British Airways is now looking to 2020, with 20 New Year resolutions that are every bit as exciting as the achievements of 2019.
The airline has already announced nine new routes for 2020 including the Kosovan and Montenegrin capitals Pristina and Podgorica, Perugia in Italy, Antalya, Dalaman and Bodrum in Turkey, San Sebastián in Spain, Rhodes in Greece and Portland, Oregon, and it’s promising even more new destinations for customers to come.
It is also due to take delivery of more than 20 new aircraft in 2020, including 787-10s and A350s which are up to 40% more fuel-efficient than the aircraft they replace.
As parts of its plans for 2020, more aircraft will be flying with the airline’s new business class seat, Club Suite, which offers privacy via a suite door, 40% more storage space and a 1-2-1 layout with direct aisle access for all passengers.
From January British Airways will be offsetting all its domestic flights, customers travelling further afield can offset their individual emissions. The airline will be making additional announcements about sustainability throughout the year.
In addition to enhancements made in 2019, customers travelling in the airline’s economy cabin will experience refreshed bedding.
The airline is introducing new menus across its network thanks to new partnerships with gourmet caterers Do&Co at Heathrow and Newrest at Gatwick.
Also, customers using the British Airways’ app will benefit from a slicker design and additional functionality improving the experience as they make and manage their bookings.
British Airways is trailing new autonomous wayfaring robots at Heathrow to help customers navigate through the airport.
The airline’s tech experts will continue their trial of printing non-essential aircraft parts like tray tables, to ensure flights are able to depart on time and without seats going out of service.
British Airways Premier Card and Gold Guest List Executive Club members will be looked after by new Concorde teams when they travel through Los Angeles, New York JFK, London Heathrow, Delhi, Los Angeles and Mumbai.
Additional, thousands of British Airways’ airport hosts worldwide will receive additional training to provide a service that goes above and beyond expectations.
The airline has committed to making continuous improvements to the Executive Club with new partners and exciting deals throughout the year.
British Airways celebrates the 10-year anniversary of its Flying Start charity which has so far raised more than £24m+ for good causes in the UK and overseas.

			
			PV: 
			0