The Concerned Youths of Niger Delta (CYND) , a militant gru, has risen in support of Transport Minister Rotimi Amaech whom IPOB attacked in Spain last week.
The CYND has now given a seven-day ultimatum to Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) to apologize to the Minister or make the Igbo interest across the south south face the consequences.
The youths drawn from the core six Niger Delta states of Rivers, Bayelsa, Akwa Ibom, Delta, Cross River and Edo, described the attack as “national embarrassments,” and threatened to destroy Igbo properties especially in Ikwere dominated areas of Rivers State.
Speaking to newsmen at the end of their emergency meeting on the matter in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital at the weekend, the National Coordinator of the group, Commander Chikaru Oronda Ndamati, warned IPOB against venting their anger on Amaechi and other national leaders over their personal grievances.
“The IPOB should remember that all the Igbos in South-South have and do businesses in Rivers state particularly in Ikwere land, which happens to be Mr. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi’s ethnic nationality,’ he said.
“We are going to destroy all the Igbo properties in Ikwere land and Niger Delta if they try it again. Ikwere ethnic nationality has four Local Government Areas in Rivers state including Port Harcourt City, Obio Akpor, Emohua and Ikwere Echie Local Governments.
“Having accepted the responsibility of the attack on Amaechi in Spain, IPOB should also be ready to take full responsibility for any reaction that will come out from their dastardly act if IPOB fails to tender apology within seven days.”
The group also urged the federal government “to take the matter before the international community to compel world leaders to always beef up security around Nigerian leaders on foreign trips”.
It asked the presidency to make the Spanish authorities extradite those arrested for such securities breach in Spain for trial in Nigeria.
Other youths’ leaders who signed the communiqué at the end of the meeting include state coordinators Comrade Effiong Abang (Akwa Ibom); Hon. Ubong Stephens (Cross River); General Mike Gibson Saware (Bayelsa); Comrade Clement Okarevu (Delta and Comrade Nosa Momoh (Edo).
IPOB first attack former Dep Senate President Ike Ekweemadu in Nuremberg, Germany early in the year, and it threatened to do the same to other Nigerian leaders visiting other countries.
 

			
			PV: 
			0