Share this on WhatsApp

Warns INEC, Police, Army to ensure neutrality in the elections

Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, on Wednesday signed the Peace Accord with President Muhammadu Buhari and other presidential candidates for the 2019 general elections which begin this Saturday across Nigeria
Atiku in his speech at the Peace Accord signing in Abuja, used the opportunity to renew his profound gratitude, firstly to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), then, to General Abdulsalami Abubakar and members of the Peace Committee for their tireless enthusiasm, dedication, and passion towards ensuring the success of this Peace Accord Process.
Atiku remarked that the gathering clearly demonstrated the importance of the upcoming elections as well as how Nigeria’s democracy has matured, not only to Nigerian people but also to the international community whose solidarity, Nigeria’s democracy has benefited from over the years.
Atiku declared: “As we prepare to sign off on this Peace Accord, as representatives of our party and people, may I freely quote the words of former President Goodluck Jonathan, which remains a benchmark, for me, taking into account the deep feelings that prevail as February 16th, 2019, approaches; “My ambition is not worth the blood of any Nigerian.”
He maintained: “In this context, I appeal once again to every staff and the leadership of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Nigeria Police Force, to be fair arbiters in the upcoming elections while letting neutrality prevail.
 “For emphasis and in the spirit of fair play, I also urge our security agencies, not to embark on indiscriminate arrests of members of the opposition, 24 to 48 hours before elections, as has been the case in previous elections.
 “Hopefully, our democracy should emerge stronger from this process with the 2019 elections proving better managed than the 2015 process, which was adjudged free and fair with the then opposition’s victory unobstructed
 “Consequently, I also appeal to the President, General Buhari, to use his good office to ensure that every eligible person who casts their vote is confident in the process and in the belief that their vote will count.
 “Additionally, every candidate must remember that this election is about the future of Nigeria, therefore, we must abide by the will of the people as freely expressed through elections, under the terms of our constitution.”
The PDP Presidential candidate noting that once again, despite concerns expressed by PDP leaders concerning likely electoral malpractices and the intimidation of voters and observers, he expressed his trust that the election officials and security services will do their duty in accordance with their oath and obligations.
 “In conclusion, I appeal once again, to our citizens, to go out and cast their votes for the candidates of their choice, to be peaceful at all times, and confident in our democracy, its institutions and processes.
“So, please go out this Saturday to vote for your future and the future of our great nation.
 “May God bless you and God bless Nigeria,” Atiku declared.
 
Share this on WhatsApp