The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos, Jimi Agbaje, has warned members of the Lagos State House of Assembly and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to refrain from the plot to impeach Governor Akinwunmi Ambode in order not throw the state into mayhem.
Agbaje noted that report indicating that the legislators issued Ambode a seven-day ultimatum to defend delayed presentation of the 2019 budget to the House of Assembly is capable of jeopardising the peace of the state; advising for peace in the state.
The PDP governorship candidate in a statement by his Directorate of Media and Publicity said that the timing of the planned impeachment is wrong with elections just a few weeks away.
“I received the news of the impending impeachment of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode with a lot of reservation, especially, with its timing and motive. This is just 19 or so days to the Federal elections and the governorship, a fortnight thereafter. So, the natural questions to ask are: Why this haste? And what is the motive,” Agbaje stated.
The PDP candidate acknowledged that though the Legislature reserves the right to perform oversight functions, “such a responsibility should not be abused. It should be carried out in a manner that places the citizens’ interest above any pecuniary benefit to a vested interest.”
He alerted Lagos residents to be observant of what he termed an unfolding tragicomedy. Agbaje. Therefore, told voters in the state to support his party, PDP, as a viable alternative to the ruling APC that had proved incapable of putting its house in order.
Agbaje declared: “Governance has ground to a halt owing to the schism between the two arms of government, both of which are dominated by APC.
“From all indications and from the findings that I have conducted, the action of the lawmakers is nothing but self-serving as dictated to them by the cabal ruling the state.”
Agbaje chided the State APC for allowing the impasse between the Executive and the Legislature to fester for this long, saying, residents had been made to bear the brunt.
“The situation, in which we Lagosians find ourselves, calls for prayers. But more than that, the people of the state should take the practical step of voting PDP into office as the viable alternative,” he said.













US imposes visa sanctions on Ghana
The US Department of Homeland Security has announced diplomatic sanctions against Ghana, revealing that the US Department will suspend issuing visas to citizens of Ghana since the Ghanaian government’s refused to take back citizens the US has tried to deport.
“Ghana has failed to live up to its obligations under international law to accept the return of its nationals ordered removed from the United States,” Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said.
“The United States routinely cooperates with foreign governments in documenting and accepting US citizens when asked, as appropriate, as do the majority of countries in the world, but Ghana has failed to do so in this case. We hope the Ghanaian government will work with us to reconcile these deficiencies quickly.”
Nielsen asked Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to sanction visas this week, and the top diplomat instructed US consular officers in Ghana to impose visa restrictions on certain categories of applicants, which the DHS statement did not specify.















APC threatens INEC
…Insists on fielding candidates In Rivers, Zamfara
 
The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has threatened the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) over exclusion of the party’s candidates in Rivers and Zamfara states from the governorship and legislative elections.
APC leadership vowed that the ruling party will not only field candidates in Zamfara State but also in Rivers State where it is also awaiting the outcome of its suit in the appeal court on the ban placed by INEC in both states.
APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, in Abuja noted that the appeal court decision on the trial of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, has vindicated President Muhammadu Buhari’s handling of the matter.
“Let me add that in Kano State, PDP did not do any primaries and yet today, INEC is not saying anything regarding PDP and all the candidates submitted for PDP in Kano were accepted.
‘’This is a fact that nobody can deny but we will not go to town to start pilloring INEC, this is a very critical institution to the success of any election.
“We heard that INEC is relying on the fact that courts of equal jurisdiction have given conflicting judgements. We can understand that. What it thus means is that it is not over and then we will continue to take steps.
“We are very certain, we did the right thing. The primaries held, INEC was not satisfied with that but it is our right to field candidates and we would follow up all the legal means to ensure that our candidates stand for elections in this 2019 general elections in Zamfara, Same situation for Rivers.
“It also shows for people who are discerning to ask that question, this is supposed to be the APC that INEC is or ought to be working for? And this is what we are going through in the hands of INEC that PDP has repeatedly claimed is put in place to rig elections for APC.
“May I remind all of us that we had primaries in Zamfara, which was affected by conflicts but the process allows for three different options. You could go for indirect, which is an electoral college, you could go with direct that allows every card-carrying member of the party to vote for their chosen candidates and then thirdly, you could go by consensus.
‘’We have the right under the constitution to exhaust these options. We did so,” he declared.















Kidnapped Abia APC chairman released
The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State, Donatus Nwankpa, who was kidnapped by unknown gunmen, has been released.
Nwankpa, who was kidnapped hours to the presidential campaign of the ruling APC which President Muhammadu Buhari arrives the state to interact with the people, had regained his freedom on Thursday night.
It was yet to be confirmed whether there was ransom paid for his release. More so, the State Police Command was yet to make public statement on the issue at the time of this report.  









			
			PV: 
			0