Mauro Icardi does not want to leave Inter Milan, his wife and agent Wanda Nara has said, but added that the decision to strip him of the club captaincy last week had been “like pulling one of his legs off.”
On Saturday, Nara appeared on Mediaset television to say she hoped the situation would soon be resolved.
Last Tuesday, Icardi was told he was no longer captain — a role he has held since 2015 — and he then withdrew from the squad for the Europa League trip to Rapid Vienna.
Inter’s decision was a response to perceived dressing room divisions caused by comments made by Nara, which coach Luciano Spalletti said had “caused embarrassment.”
Icardi and Nara attended Inter’s home win over Sampdoria on Sunday and, hours later, Nara stressed that she wanted to see the situation resolved.
“For Mauro, it’s like pulling one of his legs off,” she said. “He’s very proud of that captain’s armband and of this shirt. He never played for the money. Mauro loves this club, and he wore the armband with pride.
“I couldn’t see this coming. Nobody had said anything to us, despite the fact we’d been in touch with the club on a daily basis and I’d had a three-hour meeting with them. I found out about it via Twitter.
“We are a family of Interistas. Mauro has scored 120 goals for this shirt and he is the first person to believe in this team. I live in Milan for Inter and I don’t want to leave. We don’t want to leave Inter. This situation must be resolved.”
Inter general manager Beppe Marotta said he was keen to bring an end to the difficulties, telling Mediaset: “We want to resolve this tension and bring serenity back for everybody.
“It’s not a disciplinary measure. When you are managing a company, and I am the general manager, there are principles which must be adhered to.
“The heads of a family have to take action towards their children to help them grow. Mauro’s a good guy, but he’s got a lot of growth ahead of him.
“It was with a heavy heart that we took this decision, and all I can say to Wanda is that we will meet soon to discuss this if she likes.
“We’ve given her our word that we will present an offer for a new contract and then it will be their prerogative to decide on it.”
Inter host Rapid Vienna in the second leg of their Europa League tie on Thursday and Icardi, who has been receiving treatment for a knee injury, could return to the squad.
 

			
			PV: 
			0