Share this on WhatsApp

 Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the postponed Saturday elections, has appealed to Nigerians to remain calm and peaceful over the postponement of the presidential and federal legislature elections this Saturday by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
Atiku in a statement in Yola, Adamawa State, on Saturday, acknowledged that the INEC has postponed the elections to Saturday, February 23, 2019, remarking that the Buhari administration had enough time and money to prepare for the election, adding that Nigerians were prepared to perform their duties of voting in the elections.
Atiku said that the Buhari administration allegedly instigated the postponement of the elections with the hope to disenfranchise the Nigerian electorate so as to record low turnout on the rescheduled date.
Accordingly, Atiku called for patience and vigilance.
Atiku’s statement reads:
“Dear citizens of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 
 “As you know, the Independent National Electoral Commission has announced a postponement of the elections until 23 February and 9 March respectively.
 “The Buhari administration has had more than enough time and money to prepare for these elections and the Nigerian people were poised and ready to perform their civic responsibility by voting in the elections earlier scheduled for Saturday, 16 February, 2019. 
 “This postponement is obviously a case of the hand of Esau but the voice of Jacob. By instigating this postponement, the Buhari administration hopes to disenfranchise the Nigerian electorate in order to ensure that turn out is low on the rescheduled date. Nigerians must frustrate their plans by coming out in even greater numbers on Saturday, 23 February and Saturday, 9 March, respectively.‘Knowing that the Nigerian people are determined to reject them, they are desperate and will do anything in their power to avoid their rejection by the Nigerian people.
 “Their plan is to provoke the public, hoping for a negative reaction, and then use that as an excuse for further anti-democratic acts.
 “As such, I call on all Nigerians to be patient. We have tolerated the maladministration of this government for four years. We can extend our tolerance a few more days and give them our verdict via our votes.
 “Maintain the peace and be law abiding. Do not react to this provocation with anger, violence or any action that might be exploited by those who do not want this election to hold. Remain calm. We will overcome this. You can postpone an election, but you cannot postpone destiny.
“Please come out to vote on Saturday, 23 February and Saturday, 9 March respectively. Frustrate those who do not want this election to hold by coming out in very large numbers. That is the best antidote to their plans. 
 “May God bless you and may God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
 “Atiku Abubkar, Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party & Vice President of Nigeria, 1999-2007.”
Share this on WhatsApp