Share this on WhatsApp






Ayodele Fayose, immediate past Governor of Ekiti State, has accused the Nigerian government of hatching a plan to jam all telecommunications networks from 5am on Saturday till 5pm on Sunday.

He claimed that the plan was to make it impossible for Nigerians to use the internet or make phone calls during the presidential and National Assembly elections.

Fayose, who is also the Southwest Coordinator of the Atiku/Obi Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Council, said the equipment for the “sinister plot arrived the country from Israel last week and the test run was done on Thursday and Friday.

“I am in my house and even if they put gun in my head, I won’t keep silent at this time because this same strategy was used in Ekiti State during the 2018 governorship election.”

A statement issued on Tuesday evening Lere Olayinka, his media aide, urged all Nigerians and the international community to rise in defence of democracy and the country.

I am aware of plot by the FG to jam telecoms networks from 5am on Saturday till 5pm on Sunday, thus making it impossible for use of internet and phone calls during the elections. Equipment imported from Israel for this sinister plot was tested last week Thursday and Friday.


He said: “During the governorship election in Ekiti State, they jammed telecoms networks 3km radius around the state government house and my hometown, Afao Ekiti. My telephone lines and those of people around me were also engaged with fake calls from 5am on July 21, 2018 till 5am on July 22, 2019.

“This time around, they want to repeat the same by jamming all networks, especially in states where they intend to rig on Saturday so that Nigerians won’t be able to publish polling unit results on social media and also communicate with media houses to expose rigging.

“As at this moment, the jamming equipment brought from Israel is in the country and was demonstrated last week Thursday and Friday.”

Fayose, who said no amount of sinister plots by the APC-led government would prevent Nigerians from “freeing themselves from the present regime of bondage”, added that “Nigerians are resolute; they have made up their minds to vote and make sure that their votes count on Saturday. Jamming telecoms services will not work and it will be vehemently resisted.”






Share this on WhatsApp