Share this on WhatsApp







The Vice President of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osinbajo SAN, at a thanksgiving service at the RCCG, City of Grace, Lokoja, Kogi State, on Sunday, February 3, 2019, testified that he and people in his entourage survived the air mishap on Saturday because of an unusual prayer for him by the General Overseer of The Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG, Pastor Enoch Adeboye.
The Chopper conveying the Vice President crash landed in Kabba, Kogi State, on Saturday while on official assignment in the state.
Tbet Media Assistant to the Vice President, Olaolu Akande, in a statement, indicated that Vice President narrated: “On Friday, we went to (RCCG) camp; usually, I attend our Holy Ghost service. We came in very late from Akwa Ibom State. In fact, we arrived just in time for the grace at the end of the service.    
“Thereafter, our daddy in the Lord, (G.O) Pastor Adeboye, wanted to speak to me. He asked me how things were going on, the campaign activities and all that, and I explained everything; what I was doing on the campaign trail and all of that, some of the challenges.    
“He then said, I am going to pray for you. He said a prayer that turned out to be very interesting because usually, as you know, he doesn’t pray for long.    
“He said “Lord God Almighty, I want you to protect this man.” He said it three times and paused, then, he continued. “You know how very dear he is to my heart. I want you to protect him.”
Osinbajo remarked: “I found it very funny that he repeated it several times and then he prayed for favour and other things. So, when the crash happened, immediately it dawned on me that the Lord God had led him to say that very special prayer. And the Lord God Almighty delivered us in accordance with His word that, “even when 10,000 fall by our side, no harm whatsoever, will come near us.
“I just want to thank the Almighty God for His grace and mercy that has been so abundant in my life and in all of our lives who are here.”
People in the Chopper with the VP include Labour Minister, Stephen Ocheni, Femi Osinbajo, VP’S elder brother; Babafemi Ojudu, Ambassador Abdullahi Gwary, Laolu Akande, Dr. Biodun Adelowo, Doyin Adetuberu and Ayoola Oladunni, the ADC.    
“This is my older brother, the same father, same mother. Our father passed on long ago, but our mother is alive. If both of us had lost our lives on the same day, that would have been an absolute tragedy, but God saved that from happening. We are truly grateful to the Almighty God and we bless the name of the Lord. And for all of you who are rejoicing with us today, your homes will be filled with rejoicing. You will not know tragedy, you will not know harm, all the days of your lives will be filled with rejoicing,” Osinbajo declared








Share this on WhatsApp