Share this on WhatsApp

States why Nigerians should vote Atiku on Saturday
Sympathizes with Gov. Shettima over attack by APC-defeated Boko Haram

The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in a state of the nation broadcast in Abuja on Thursday sympathized with the Governor of Borno State, Kashim Shettima, who narrowly escaped death when Boko Haram guerrilla fighters attacked his convoy in the state, killing some staff on his entourage. The PDP, accordingly, raised fresh questions over claims by President Muhammadu Buhari and All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders that the APC government has degraded and technically defeated the Boko Haram fighters in the northeast.
Accordingly, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, Director General, Atiku Presidential Campaign Organisation, APCO; Deputy Chairman, PDP Presidential Campaign Council, PDP-PCC, and former Governor of Ogun State, in the state of the nation statement on Thursday, decried that few hours ago, insurgents believed to be members of the terrorist organization, Boko Haram, attacked the convoy of the Governor of Borno State, Alhaji Kashim Shettima, who he identified as his very good friend. The Director General noted that Shettima is just one of the thousands across the country whose lives have been threatened and in most cases taken away by terrorists who the federal government boldly said have been defeated few months ago. He expressed remorse that children, wives, fathers, mothers, infants and several loved ones have had their lives cut short by bandits in the North Western part of the country, adding: “while our brothers and sisters in the middle belt continue the unceremonious burial of family members, loved ones, children and parents in shallow graves as a result of the unchecked blood thirst of herdsmen across the region. This is the state of Nigeria today!”
The DG lamented that in the last four years, Nigerians have witnessed an unimaginable level of blatant disregard for the wellbeing of citizens by a government that places more emphasis on a caricature anti-corruption war that continues to enrich friends and families of those in the Presidency without recourse to the pains of the people. “In the full glare of us all, we witnessed as cronies and friends of the President caught red handed in illicit funds were patted on the back while individuals in the opposition party and, even, independent institutions were clamped down with rigour and alacrity alien to this government,” Daniel said.
The DG bemoaned: “Our nation today is one that has made it nearly impossible for an average Nigerian to feed a simple family of five. Workers and civil servants toil day and night for salaries and wages that cannot afford them and their families a three square meal. The prices of food items in the market have skyrocketed to an unimaginable state while basic bills such as school fees, house rents, among others have become a luxury affordable easily only to those who cut corners.
“Fellow countrymen and women, I feel this pain as well. Not just as a Nigerian but also as a businessman with hundreds of people on my salary schedule. I have watched many break down as a result of the hardship and I have seen many businesses and corporate organizations close shops as a result of bad government policies.”
The former Governor stated that this is why this election is not about political parties or just an individual. “It is about us as a people; Nigerians who live in Nigeria and are the direct victims of this lack of direction and knowledge of how to run the country by those in power today.
“Make no mistake, Nigeria cannot continue on this path for another four years. Nigeria cannot survive another four years of this misdirection and maladministration, he declared.
The PDP-PCC Deputy Chairman clarified: “to those who are still unclear of the choices before us. It is a choice between a man who has created thousands of Jobs, employed over 50,000 across the country and another man whose only source of job creation is rearing of 150 cattle. We need the former to solve our reoccurring unemployment problem across the country and the latter to go back home and face his flocks.
“It is a choice between a detribalized Nigerian who doesn’t see ethnic, religion or regional difference but Nigeria. A man who married across all the regions of the country, love and treat all equally; and a man who sees us as a nation of 95% and 5%; A man who sees us as a divided nation that must be conquered with divide and rule. Again, we need the former to repair our fragile unity and focus us all on the path of collective development.
“It is a choice between an healthy and sound minded Nigerian who has the capacity to carry out the duties of the office of the President of the Federal Republic without annexation of same to some group of individuals named cabals and a man who is better left to take a long rest and attend properly to his health concern without holding us all to ransom and having those who are neither elected or appointed dictate and share the duties of the office of the President without accountability.
“It is a choice between a man who understands what is required for this country to grow with a sound business mind and technological exposure needed to refocus our nation to the emerging innovations and new age generation not just for us but our children and grandchildren; A digital system devoid of analog mentality.”
From the above clarifications Gbenga Daniel declared: “Atiku Abubakar is the choice before us. He is our ticket to development and advancement. He is our hope to jobs, good healthcare, better security and most importantly, good life.
“Fellow Nigerians, I enjoin you to save Nigeria from the disaster of another four years of this administration. I implore you to answer this clarion call and help end the looming catastrophe.
“Remember, all that is needed for evil to prevail is for good men and women to do nothing. All that is needed for this looming doom to occur is for us to sit down and “refuse to make the right choice.
Take action!Go out!!Vote!!!
“Vote PDP and stand by your vote. I will be doing the same. Not just for myself and family but for those ones coming behind who would ask why we allowed evil to prevail.”
He summed up: “The future of Nigeria is now in our hands. Let’s save it!”


 
Share this on WhatsApp