Share this on WhatsApp
The people of Isawo Community in Ikorodu on Thursday applauded the 81 Division, Nigerian Army in dealing with the malfeasance of cult groups and other criminal gangs that have been making life intolerable for the residents.
A cross section of community leaders, students and teachers who spoke on Thursday at Ikorodu during a free medical rhapsody, distribution of books and other writing materials to students of Anglican Nursery and Primary School, at the Isawo Community Town Hall, commended the army for its assistance at taming the criminals at Ikorodu particularly at Isawo community.
Bearing her mind, the Assistant Head teacher, of Anglican Nursery and Primary School, Mrs Tijiani Amiyat Odunola expressed joy and satisfaction with the doggedness of Nigerian Army.
According to Odunola, “Nigerian Army surprised us. The children are happy and grateful for their kind donation of books and writing materials. I would like other forces to emulate the Nigerian Army’s generosity and educational advancement of our children.”
The Chairman of Aseyori CDA and Road Working Committee,  Alhaji Adisa Owolabi said that Python Dance 111 has brought calmness to the environment considering that Isawo used to be notorious for the activities of militants and criminal gangs.
“Since soldiers intervened, everything has calmed down. There was a time I had to run away from my house for about three months due to the activities of the criminals. Honestly, I am satisfied with what the army is doing and had achieved with Ex. Egwu Eke 111. Python Dance is okay.
“For the free medical care, I am here with my family and we have been medically examined and given drugs. I wish this exercise can continue, ” Owolabi reiterated.
In similar vein, the Secretary of Road Working Committee, Mr. Abiodun Sunday simply described the free medical rhapsody as “laudable and fantastic.”
He further explained that the exercise was unprecedented in the history of the community as they have not had the privilege of enjoying such robust free medical attention by any force until now.
“I must emphasize that the way the army have dealt with the criminals, people who fled their homes before are returning. Moreover, the value of properties have also appreciated.”
One of the pupils that benefited from the free books distribution, a Primary Six A pupil of Anglican Nursery and Primary School, Isawo, Miss Chidiumebi Obioha, while thanking the men and officers of the Nigerian Army for the exercise books and other writing materials given to them, added that “I am happy and grateful to the NA for the gesture. I say, thank you.”
On his part, a retired soldier, an 83 years old, Yemi Arowolo, who served in the Nigerian Army Band Corps before his retirement and also benefited from the free medical services observed that since he has been living at Isawo community, they have never had such free medical attention.
He urged the army to continue at reaching out to the less privileged in the society who cannot have access to free medical needs and care.
Earlier, in a press statement signed by the Acting Deputy Director Army Public Relations, Lt Col Olaolu Daudu on behalf of the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division, Maj Gen Musa Sani Yusuf  said, “As part of the Civil Military cooperation activities lined up for the ongoing Ex. Egwu Eke 111 (Python Dance), the GOC, 81 Division, Maj Gen Musa Sani Yusuf flagged off the free medical outreach in Isawo Town, Ikorodu and the distribution of books and writing materials to pupils and students.
He further added that the outreach which covered 81 Division’s Area of Responsibilities featured free consultation, diagnosis and dispensing of medications as well as distribution of books an writing materials.
Over 500 residents, which included men, women and children benefited from the medical outreach and free books distribution.
Exercise: EGWU EKE 111 was flagged off by the Chief of Army Staff, (COAS), Lt Gen Tukur Buratai  at the Tukur Buratai Sports Complex, Ikeja on 14 January, 2019 and would be rounded off in the second week of March,  2019.
Share this on WhatsApp