Share this on WhatsApp






Accuses Army, Police connivance

The Coalition of United Political Parties, CUPP, says it has received very credible intelligence on the almost perfected plot of the Presidency and the All Progressive Congress to rig the rescheduled Presidential and National Assembly election through the skewed deployment of security forces.

In a statement signed by its National Spokesperson, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, CUPP said the APC having ran out of rigging options since it failed in its plot to force staggered elections on the Electoral body, the last option left to the Presidency was the use of security forces, a plot unveiled by the President himself at the APC Caucus meeting.

“We are in possession of irrefutable evidence that Police and Army Commanders in many states including Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Bauchi, Kwara, Imo Delta and Benue have been holding strategy meeting with APC leaders in those States on how to undermine credible elections. People power must triumph over the wicked people in power.


“The fuller details instructions of the Chief of Army Staff, COAS and the Inspector General of Police, IGP to compromise the presidential election is by intimidating and harassing voters, blocking of opposition agents from collation centres, arrest of Opposition Leaders, Party agents and media practitioners in the field, leading of APC chieftains to swap already thumb printed ballot papers and filled in result sheets and ultimately use of lethal force against citizens who oppose them.

“It is more worrisome that despite knowing the standard rules of engagement and the obvious consequences of purported obedience to unlawful orders, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen. Tukur Buratai without any modicum of shame publicly accepted that the army will obey the partisan instructions of President Muhammadu Buhari and violate the rights of citizens and be involved in the elections.

“It must have been this position that must have instigated overzealous police officers and soldiers in open show of partisanship to post photos online showing “loyalty” to the President by showing the 4 X 4 sign of the President.

CUPP explained that based on this information, the Nigerian opposition has passed a nationwide vote of no confidence on the Inspector General of Police and the Chief of Army staff.
“We call on the International Community to hold the duo of the Chief of Army staff and the Inspector General of Police personally responsible for the loss of innocent lives during the election by reason of their directing their men to execute the unlawful, undemocratic and draconian orders of President Muhammadu Buhari,” he said.




Share this on WhatsApp