Share this on WhatsApp
Jubilant supporters of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, are sacrificing their personal products to celebrate the victory of the ruling party and its presidential candidate. Tea, akara (bean cake) and bread sellers went on wild celebration in Yola, Adamawa State, after the announcement of the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday by the INEC. Several tea, akara and bread sellers were said to have shared their products freely to people, essentially, the ‘almajiri’ who they provided free breakfast in celebration the re-election of President Buhari.
A News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent who went round the town, reported seeing the pupils queuing up in different tea and bread selling spots, most of them beaming with smiles while waiting for their turn to collect their share without payment.
One of the sellers, Umaru Ali, told NAN that their joy knew no bound, adding that their gesture was aimed at ensuring the participation of the less privileged in the celebration.
Female petty traders engaged in frying and selling of local delicacies like bean cake (akara) and ‘masa’ also joined the fray as some of them gave out their delicacies to passer-by for free.
One of them, Hajara Yakubu, was gathered to have said that she was a beneficiary ‘trader-moni’ programme of the Federal Government, as such had to give thanks to God that the initiator of the programme had triumphed to continue his good work.
“I have spoken to many of my friends who benefitted from the programme and they are doing same to celebrate Buhari’s victory,” Yakubu said.
Also, most commercial tricycle operators in the town decorated their vehicles with pictures of President Buhari as they do their business of the day.
It was gathered that there was a minor fracas between supporters of Buhari and Atiku along Yola to Gombe Road in Numan Town where supporters of Buhari had trooped out for the celebration.
Confirming the incident, the Public Relations Officer of Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Mr Abubakar Baba, said the issue was not a serious one and that it had been brought under control.
“It’s a minor fracas that led to road blockage but our men in that area have moved in with other security agencies to contain the situation,” Baba said.
Share this on WhatsApp