Share this on WhatsApp
 
The All Progressives Congress has vowed to punish the Ogun State Governor, Ibikunle Amosun, for allegedly hiring thugs that attacked President Muhammadu Buhari and party leaders at Monday’s campaign rally of the party in Abeokuta.
Expressing regrets at the disruption of the campaign, the APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, in a statement on Tuesday said that those responsible for the “premeditated attacks” would be dealt with.
The party said the sanction would be delayed till after the elections.
Issa-Onilu said, “The All Progressives Congress (APC) regrets Monday’s premeditated attacks sponsored by Governor Ibikunle Amosun on President Muhammadu Buhari and other senior party leaders at the venue of the presidential campaign rally in Ogun State.
“This is one act of indiscipline too many. The APC will not condone acts of indiscipline, indiscretion, and anti-party activities from any party member no matter how highly placed.
“The party will review this gross misconduct of deliberately positioning thugs to attack and embarrass the President and the party’s leadership. The party will take a decision on this matter immediately after the elections.
“It must be stated that party supremacy and discipline according to our constitution are not matters of choice but binding principles which must be adhered to by all party members.
“The APC is a party known for discipline, justice, fairness, and equality hence any plan to destroy what this party stands for would be rejected. No single person will be allowed to put his personal and selfish interests ahead of the wishes of the people of Ogun State and elsewhere.”
The APC said the decision of the National Working Committee on post-primaries remained unbendable.
“Post primaries, the decision of the National Working Committee to uphold the wishes of party members is unbendable. Therefore, whatever means being presently deployed by persons intending to undermine the wishes of the people for personal gains will not be tolerated.
“We urge our teeming party supporters and members not to be disturbed by Monday’s condemnable incident. We urge all to continue trooping out en masse for our remaining campaigns and vote massively for all and only APC candidates in the forthcoming general elections,” the statement added.
 
Share this on WhatsApp