Share this on WhatsApp





The Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has again cried out over an alleged plot by the ruling party and the Nigerian Army against the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, during this Saturday’s presidential poll.

Timi Frank, a former deputy national publicity secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who had since defected to the PDP raised the alarm in a statement on Thursday in Abuja, claiming that the information was disclosed by a top general in the Nigerian Army.

He claimed he reliably gathered that the APC has concluded plans to use army authorities alongside thugs and selected militants, who will be dressed in army attire and mandated to pose as real soldiers, to cause mayhem in selected opposition strongholds during the election.


“A Special Masked Squad will be deployed to Adamawa with the sole purpose of ensuring that voters are intimidated and disenfranchise, while the order to hide under the guise of the unrest in the North-east will be used to blow the situation out of proportion and eventually compromise the security architecture leaving the PDP candidate vulnerable, and open for any planned attack aimed particularly on the PDP Presidential Candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar.

“Suffice to note, that the Press Conference of the Nigerian Army held at the instance of the Army Chief with some of its commanders confirms our earlier fears, that the Army Chief has clearly taken a position as regards the forthcoming elections. Issuing a false statement on the advice given to the army by the PDP candidate and requesting an apology is an all-time low for a revered government institution like the Nigerian Army.

Frank said General Buratai must be reminded that he has a duty in protecting the territorial integrity of the Nigerian nation and not being out rightly partisan as exhibited in his press briefing to top commanders on Wednesday.

“Finally let me also alert Nigerians that we’re aware that there’s been insurmountable pressure on the electoral umpire (INEC) to still carry out staggered elections in some selected states with a view to compromising the elections despite INECs assurances of its readiness in ensuring total election compliance in the 36states.

“The Director Operations may have already been compromised, having been pressured by the conduit of the ruling party (Mrs. Amina Zakari) serving as an eye for the ruling party. I would therefore kindly advise the INEC chairman not to avail himself to this ungodly wicked act, but to rather maintain his integrity as Nigerians and the international community will hold him directly responsible in the event of subverting the will of the people,” Frank said.





Share this on WhatsApp