Share this on WhatsApp
The Anti-kidnapping Squad of the Lagos State Police Command, in the Ikorodu axis of the state, crushed kidnappers syndicate at Agbowa, and subsequently arrested a kidnapper suspect, Austine Inuesokan Ebimiyenwei, 27, a native of Arogbo Azapa community of Ese-Odo Local Government Area, Ondo State. The Police further recovered the corpse of one Festus Abama who died during exchange of fire while two escaped with bullet wounds.
The Command, under the leadership of Commissioner of Police, Edgal Imohimi, noted that two separate reports were received from one Suleiman Eniola Ajumobi and one Veronica Ewuru ‘f ‘about the kidnapping of their daughter and husband, respectively. While Suleiman Eniola Ajumobi reported that his 7-year-old daughter was kidnapped from his house in his presence, Veronica Ewuru stated that her husband, one DSP Patrick Ewuru, a police officer attached to Force Headquarters annex, Obalende, was kidnapped from their house in the night when the victim came out to check on the Power Generating Set that suddenly stopped working. 
The kidnappers demanded for ransom of N25 million from Suleiman and N10 million from the family of DSP Patrick Ewuru but later settled for N500,000 for both families. 
The CP directed operatives handling the matter to play along with the kidnappers in the interest of the victims who were still in captivity. 
On the release of the two victims, the Polcie moved in immediately and the Kidnappers hideout at Agbowa was busted, the deceased was killed in the ensuing gun battle while Austine Inuesokan Ebimiyenwei surrendered.
The suspect confessed to the crime and victims have identified both the deceased and Austine Inuesokan Ebimiyenwei as those who kidnapped them. Concerted effort is being made to arrest those on the run while the suspect already in police custody will be charged to court. 
According to the Lagos State Police PRO CSP Chike Oti “It is the hope of CP Lagos that, criminals will take a look at the crime busting record of the Command and see the futility of plying their trade in the state.”
Share this on WhatsApp