Share this on WhatsApp
THE Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) yesterday congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari, urging him to run an inclusive government.

It also urged Buhari’s main challenger in the presidential race, Atiku Abubakar of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), to concede defeat and congratulate the president-elect.

Also yesterday, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) asked all those who lost in the just concluded presidential and National Assembly elections, especially former Vice President Abubakar, to put the interest of the nation first and accept defeat in good fate.

According to the ACF, conceding defeat and congratulating President Buhari by Atiku, will be in the overall interest of Nigeria and rank the former vice president among global democrats.

In a congratulatory message signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Muhammad Ibrahim Biu, the ACF said there was credible evidence that the election was peaceful, free and fair.

It equally called on President Buhari to ensure that “the new administration keeps to its promise of strengthening Nigeria’s unity and inclusiveness in government, so that no section or group is left behind or left out”.

The ACF said: “The declaration of President Buhari of the APC as the president-elect by the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC)’s Chief Returning Officer, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, after collating all the election results of 2019 presidential election received from the 36 states and FCT, and having satisfied the requirements as provided by law has signalled a new administration in our democratic process.

“The journey to this point has not been easy to the contestants, the electorate and other stakeholders. However, with perseverance, resilience, determination and hard work by all in the electoral process, Nigeria has come to this successful end.

“The 2019 presidential election is another milestone in the nation’s election history in view of the keen contest between the two major contenders in the persons of President Buhari of APC and Alhaji Abubakar of PDP.

“The successful conclusion of this election despite some of the ugly incidences witnessed in some parts of country in terms of ballot box snatching, killings, security challenges and other logistic problems, Nigerians have clearly demonstrated their resolve to move forward and consolidate the gains of multiparty democracy.

“ACF, therefore, congratulates all Nigerians for their resilience, commitment and courage in exercising their civic responsibility amid challenges that are natural concomitant of such tasks and responsibilities.

“The ACF equally congratulates President Buhari on his re-election as the president in the just concluded 2019 presidential election. Of equal importance, the ACF salutes the courage of Atiku for putting up a gallantry fight with an impressive performance in the presidential elections.

“The forum calls on Atiku as a committed democrat, who cherishes peaceful democratic transition, to accept the will of the people, concede defeat and congratulate President Buhari on his well-deserved victory, especially as there was credible evidence that the elections have been generally peaceful, free and fair.
“Such concession on the part of the main challenger would be in the overall interest of Nigeria and place him among global democrats…

“ACF urges all Nigerians to demonstrate the same spirit and commitment in the March 9 Governorship and State Assembly elections.”

NLC President Comrade Ayuba Wabba, in a statement in Abuja, urged Atiku and other losers to bear in mind that no candidate’s victory or loss is worth the blood of any Nigerian or their property.
He told the President that his re-election should avail him a great opportunity to reflect on and re-assess his vision, strategy and implementation as well as enables him to complete pending projects and initiate new ones where feasible.

The statement reads: “The NLC wishes to congratulate Buhari on his re-election as President, being the second person to get re-elected since the return to civilian rule 20 years ago.

“We also wish to congratulate other candidates for their participation and urge them to accept the outcome of the election, and adherence to the peace accord they had signed before the election.

“The electioneering campaign, although bitterly fought and the election itself keenly contested, we urge the President-elect and any aggrieved party to put first the interest of the nation. We reiterate that no candidate’s victory or loss is worth the life or property of anyone.”
Share this on WhatsApp