Petr Cech aims to finish his playing days in style by winning the Europa League with Arsenal.
Goalkeeper Cech is retiring at the end of the season after 14 trophies in a glittering 15-year English career with Chelsea and now the Gunners, and wants to go out on a high after the May 29 final with one last medal.
The 36-year-old, who should start Thursday’s last-32 tie first leg against BATE Borisov here in Belarus, said: “Of course, that would be an ideal scenario for me to finish my career.
“We prepare every day for every competition and this is what we are aiming for, we try to win every game and progress step by step and as a club it is important for us to try and go as far as possible. Winning the Europa League is a great memory for everyone involved and secondly it can book you a place in the Champions League so there is a lot to play for.”
Arsenal beat BATE home and away by an ‘aggregate’ score of 10-2 in the Europa League’s group stage last season on their way to the semi-finals, where they lost to eventual winners Atletico Madrid.
Unbeaten in the group stage, they are strong favourites to knock out Borisov, who won their 13th straight domestic title in November but have not played a competitive game for two months.
Champions League 2011-12 winner Cech insists Arsenal will not take their hosts lightly, and refuses to think about the possibility this tie could be his swansong in European competition.
He said: “You are right that it might be the last time I am in the competition, but I prepare for the game like I did through my whole career. I don’t think if it is my last game in the competition or not.”
Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang (illness) and Granit Xhaka (groin) both return to the squad, but Mesut Ozil did not travel despite his return to training after illness.
Ozil’s Arsenal future remains in doubt with the former Germany star a more and more peripheral figure this season but Emery — who famously won this competition three seasons running as Sevilla boss — insisted he had only been left out for fitness reasons, saying: “We are here with the players that are okay to play.
“The players we didn’t bring in the squad were because Aaron Ramsey did not train with us and Sokratis only started training yesterday and today – I don’t think it’s enough. Mesut is the same.
“Aubameyang, after he was sick, trained on Monday, yesterday and today, and I think he’s okay for the match.”
When Chelsea won here in a November group-stage game, boss Maurizio Sarri complained about the pitch.
But despite sub-zero temperatures and significant snowfall, Emery said: “It’s not an excuse for us.”

			
			Post Views: 
			123