Share this on WhatsApp





Barely, few hours to the Presidential and National Assembly elections, the New Generation Leadership, NGL, has cautioned the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC) not to compromise the electoral process but ensure a level playing ground for all the political parties.

This was contained in a statement released by the Secretary of the group, Adedayo Adegbayibi while speaking on the election to elect representatives at various levels.

The New Generation Leadership which expressed its determination to continue to enhance good governance, vibrant leadership and credible candidates said, the election must reflect the wishes of the people.

According to the statement “the beauty of democracy lies in Its natural internal seamless change of government without any let or hindrance, when desired by the electorates, in a free and fair election.

“And this is what must be encouraged in Nigeria, by calling on the youth to participate actively in the electoral process. To avoid anarchy, the 2019 elections must be well conducted in a free and fair setting.”

NGL which has been supporting credible youth contesting on any political party in any part of Nigeria and genuine candidates, who have virile developmental programmes for the youth, had endorsed the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, All progressives Congress, APC, Governorship Candidate in Lagos, Jide Sanwoolu and his Sokoto counterpart, Ahmad Aliyu as well as his Deputy, Farouk Mallami Yabo.

Others include Bankole Wellington, Banky W- MDP, Olumide Ojerinde APC, Freedom Jollof AAC, Oloye Akin Alabi APC, Gbadebo Rhodes PDP, Kingsley Moghalu YPP, Tunde Aleshinloye-Williams PDP and Olumuyiwa Owadara RMD, PDP who are contesting for various political positions in the Country.

The group advised youth in the country to rise up to take responsibilities as the strength of the Nation.

The New Generation Leadership, said “though it was disheartening to note that the system is skewed against the youth, there is hope in the fact that the youth has great numerical strenght, that can always sway elections, if they come together as one”.

According to the statement, “the youth must come together and support those in the category to be heard and seen in the political space. The 2019 elections should not be about political parties, but about personalities who are competent, credible and committed to a new Nigeria that will work for all”.




Share this on WhatsApp