The Police Service Commission (PSC) has approved the appointment of CP Mu’azu Zubairu as the new Commissioner of Police, Lagos state.

Kwara, Kogi and other states also got new Commissioners of Police while the Commissioners of Police in charge of FCT, Borno and few other states’ appointment were revalidated.

The appointment came following recommendation by the acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu to the Police Service Commission.

Details of the approval and deployment is contained in a statement in Abuja on Tuesday by the Commission’s Spokesman, Ikechukwu Ani.

The Commissioners of Police and the states they are deployed to are: “Buba Sanusi, Katsina State; Mohammed Wakili, Kano State; Rabiu Ladodo, Jigawa State; Ahmed Iliyasu, Ogun State; Mu’azu Zubairu, Lagos State; Ibrahim Sabo, Niger State; Alkassam Sanusi, Taraba State; Garba M. Mukaddas, Adamawa State;

Others are Omololu Bishi, Benue State; Bola Longe, Nassarawa State; Isaac Akinmoyede, Plateau State; Odumosu Hakeem Edo State; Olushola David, Bayelsa State; Adeleke Yinka, Delta State; Austin Iwero Agbonlahor, Cross Rivers State; Bashir Makama, Akwa Ibom State; Awosola Awotunde, Ebonyi State; Belel Usman, Rivers State; Bello Makwashi, Gombe State and Abdulrahman Ahmed, Kaduna State.”

Others are:  “Bala Ciroma, FCT; Egbetokun Kayode, Kwara State; Hakeem Busari, Kogi State; Asuquo Amba, Ekiti state; Galadanchi Dasuki, Imo State; Suleiman Balarabe, Enugu State; Dandaura Mustapha, Anambra State; Etim Ene Okon, Abia state; Ibrahim Kaoje, Sokoto state.

Also appointed are: Celestine Okoye, Zamfara State; Garba Danjuma, Kebbi State; Abiodun Ige, Osun State; Undie Adie, Ondo State; Olukolu Shina, Oyo State; Ali Janga, Bauchi State; Damian Chukwu, Bornu State and Sumonu Abdulmalik, Yobe State.”

According to the Commission, the CPs are expected to proceed immediately to their new Commands ahead of the 2019 general elections.

The Chairman of the Commission, Alhaji Musiliu Smith charged them to quickly settle at their new posts and ensure that the forth-coming general elections in their various Commands are peaceful, free, fair and transparent.

He also stated that the country cannot afford any disruption of the elections anywhere as the world was looking up to Nigeria for a proof that its democracy has continued to mature.

The Commission also said its approval has been conveyed to the acting Inspector General of Police for implementation.
Thanks