Share this on WhatsApp
Liverpool have made no secret of the fact they are in the hunt for a new kit deal.
That is, in short, down to the fact the Reds believe they should be getting more money from their supplier and their current deal with New Balance – worth around £45million a year – is set to expire at the end of next season.
Their belief they should be getting more cash is in no small part down to the fact Jurgen Klopp ‘s side are top of the Premier League , recently announced a record-breaking £125m pre-tax profit and after reaching the Champions League final in May last year are into the knockout stages of the competition this term to launch another bid to clinch the trophy.
And not to mention they boast some of the world’s best players in their squad while having one of the best managers in football at the helm.
So, options are being explored across the board to strike up fresh terms and the new deal – whoever it is eventually signed with – will be the most lucrative in the club’s storied history.
The ECHO understands that discussions are underway with New Balance over a possible extension but Liverpool are also open to offers from rival kit suppliers such as Adidas, Nike and Puma.
Manchester City announced this morning that they have signed a new ten-year, £650million kit deal with Puma.
The deal is the second biggest in the Premier League , behind Manchester United ’s £750million agreement with Adidas, and will begin next season.
The £65million-a-year deal overtakes Arsenal’s £60million partnership with Adidas, and Chelsea’s Nike deal for the same amount.
The Reds believe they should be commanding these kind of figures and considering their standing and the fact City have been able to demand this much money will no doubt give Anfield bosses extra ammunition when it comes to negotiating with any potential supplier.
Liverpool have worn New Balance shirts since 2015/16 having previously worked with their affiliate company Warrior from 2012/13.
The partnership has been incredibly successful with the previous two home kits consecutively being the highest-selling kits in the Reds’ history.
However, if New Balance want to retain it they will have to offer Liverpool a hefty increase on the current terms.
Share this on WhatsApp