Share this on WhatsApp





The African Action Congress, AAC, has described the arrest and arraignment of six of its members by the police over the allegations that they were defacing public property as a cooked up allegation that will not hold water.

The six arrested members appeared in court Monday over charges of public vandalism had their case adjourned to the 13th of May.

Reacting to the court ruling in a statement made available to National Daily on Monday, Director, PR, Media and Communications for Sowore 2019 Campaign, Rachel Onamusi-Kpiasi, the young men were unjustly arrested for defacing public property – ripping campaign posters of other party candidates.

“The police responsible for the arrest had neither evidence nor eyewitnesses but chose to make the young men scapegoats following reports from the Lagos State gubernatorial candidate, Jimi Agbaje, that his posters were being destroyed by APC vandals. Believing that these young men had neither godfathers not recourse to funds, the police decided to parade them to assuage the PDP umbrage.



“What the police did not bank on was that a new world order is starting to unfurl in Nigeria; one in which people stand up for what is right simply because it is the right thing to do. What the police did not know was that Omoyele Sowore, the presidential candidate these young men supported, was at the forefront of this revolution.
He said the AAC has worked tirelessly to have the young men released on bail – disrupting injustice while maintaining respect for the judiciary system.

“Today, they were seen in court for the first mention and the case has been adjourned till the middle of May. This hurdle too will be crossed; this time after the presidential elections, and we will continue to liberate Nigeria.

“But, before then, we have done what we perceive to be the most important task – clearing their names with the public with our steadfast protestations that they did not and have never torn posters belonging to other parties, and asking the police to provide evidence, if any, to the contrary.”






Share this on WhatsApp