Orders immediate arrest of perpetrators

The Inspector General of Police, Ag. IGP M.A Adamu, has decried the attack on a Deputy Commissioner of Police in Brass, Bayelsa state and other police officers during last weekend presidential and national assembly election.
Recall that the Secretary to the State Government in Bayelsa state, Barr. Kemela Okara, had accused thugs suspected to be working for the All Progressives Congress in the state of kidnapping and harassing Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Federal SARS, Kola Okunola.

Barr. Okara had specifically named one Israel Sunny-Goli, a member representing Brass Constituency 1 in the Bayelsa State House of Assembly as leading the thugs that perpetrated the dastardly.

He added that the Deputy Commissioner of police’s refusal to sign the fake result caused a disagreement between the police officer and a Major of the Nigerian Army and his men.


In a statement signed by Force public relations officer, ACP Frank Mba, the IGP has ordered for the immediate arrest, comprehensive investigation and diligent prosecution of persons involved, no matter their positions in society.

The IGP, who described the incident as unwarranted and unprovoked, warns that under his watch, such brazen acts of impunity will not be condoned.

In a related incident, Five (5) male suspects have been arrested in Umuahia, Abia State over an attack on a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) who was patriotically defending the sanctity of the electoral system at a Collation Centre in Umuahia.

He said these attacks have once again highlighted the risks and hazards inherent in policing in Nigeria, and the need for stakeholders and government at all levels to continue to support the officers and men of the Force in the discharge of their responsibilities.

Meanwhile, the IGP has commended all Nigerians, whom, by their words and actions, have clearly identified with the Force by denouncing these barbaric and uncivilized actions against Police Officers performing their legitimate duties.

The IGP reassures the public that the two Officers are safe and in good health and are not under any form of unlawful restraint or detention.

			
			Post Views: 
			175