Share this on WhatsApp











Gunmen invade Urhokpota collation Hall























There are reports of seeming  security collapse in Edo State, as gunmen invaded the election results collation venue of the Edo South Senatorial District in Urhoklkta, the political home of the Governor, Godwin Obaseki.  Indigenes  of the area told our Reporter that results announced at the polling units show  that the Governor lost almost every ward to the PDP.
This latest act of political violence after  President Muhammadu Buhari,, candidate of the ruling APC, in  his series of broadcast assured Nigerians of adequate security during the elections,, raises concerns about the sincerity of the APC Government  to ensure the 2019 general  elections are  credible, free and  fair. The invadion of the collation centre by gunmen in the  evening of the Saturday  elections is beginning to validate the earlier  concerns raised by the PDP in Edo State alleging that Governor Godwin Obaseki had given order to armed thugs to burn ballot boxes in the state  before collation of final results to avoid the defeat of the All Progressives Congress, APC, by the PDP having noticed the huge turnout of PDP supporters  at the polling units.















The PDP in a statement on Saturday,  indicated that the party  “has received a very disturbing intelligence report that the governor and chief security officer of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, just rose from a crisis meeting after he received situation report that PDP had cleared Edo South senatorial district elections  and they would soon be announce winners.”
The statement further indicated that PDP is set to produce the senator and the four House of Representatives member from the district.

PDP alleged: “The governor has ordered the invasion, snatching of ballot boxes and result sheets in selected collation centres in the district. The governors in house thugs and hoodlums were ordered to cause mayhem, vandalise the centres and possibly set same on fire.

“This order is to be carried out under the cover of darkness. It is imminent! “

The PDP then called on the governor to reconsider this unlawful order if for nothing else, he is the governor.  PDP warned that Edo people will hold him responsible for the unnecessary  blood he is about to spill on Benin land.

“The police and DSS are hereby put on notice that we will defend ourself if our mandate is threatened and they freign ignorance.

“Mr Governor,  there is a saying that we know where we set the fire, but we won’t know who, where and what will be consumed,” PDP warned.






















































































Share this on WhatsApp