Share this on WhatsApp
The Minister of Communications, Dr Adebayo Shittu, has urged stakeholders in the Information Communication Technology (ICT) sector to support the Nigerian National Broadband Council with credible suggestions toward the development of the Nigerian National Broadband Plan (NNBP) 2019–2023.
The minister’s request is in a statement issued by his Special Assistant (Media), Mr Bolaji Kazeem in Abuja on Friday.
Kazeem said that the minister stressed the need for sustainable broadband capacity that could drive the country’s socio-economic activities.
He quoted the minister as saying “there is enormous need for sustainable broadband capacity to improve quality of services.
“The Nigerian National Broadband Council has been reviewing the progress made so far, and has identified areas of programme
adjustment to permit the realisation of new and emerging opportunities.
“Such areas of review are: development of an Integrated National Broadband Backbone, development of National Policy on
Open Access and the constitution of Inter-Ministerial Committee on ICT Convergence and related issues.
“Others are engagement of strategic partners on specific issues such as funding, tax waivers and participation of stakeholders
in the review process through suggestions to improve on the new strategy document.’’
According to the minister, Nigeria has been improving its use of ICT enabled services to drive socio-economic activities.
He added that the Nigerian National Broadband Council was established to provide periodic evaluation of progress,
facilitate coordination and collaboration, as well as highlight areas of programme adjustment to permit the realisation of emerging opportunities.
Shittu said that the Ministry of Communications had developed critical policy documents to guide interested investors and
industry players to engender trust.
“Some of the policy documents include the e-Government Masterplan, the Local Content Guideline, and ICT Roadmap,’’ he added.
Share this on WhatsApp