Share this on WhatsApp





The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, has alleged that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is working for the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).

Oshiomhole who disclosed this at a press briefing in Abuja on Wednesday while reacting to claims by the opposition party that the APC was planning to rig the coming elections, said two resident electoral commissioners (RECs) in the South-South states are working for the PDP.

He cited the commission’s decision to ban APC from presenting candidates in Zamfara State as one of the evidence of INEC’s alleged collusion with the PDP.

“INEC without giving us any explanation and without giving any concrete evidence went ahead to say that we can’t field candidates in Zamfara State, therefore, seeking to annul democracy in Zamfara State,” the ruling party chairman said.

He also said Buhari was a victim of rigging under the PDP and so the PDP is not in the moral position to accuse him of planning to rig.

Describing the PDP as old wine in “old poisonous wineskin”, Oshiomhole said the APC is not scared and would trounce the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP).

“This election is for us, no election can be easier and we will defeat PDP. There will be no violence, just vote, it will be counted and we will win”, he said.

Oshiomhole urged the electorate to vote for President Buhari and other APC candidates, saying the APC-led federal government has done a lot and needs to be supported to do more.

Speaking on the fire incidents in some INEC offices, Oshiomhole said it is the APC that should be alleging the PDP is responsible for the fire incidents.

“If anything, we are the ones that should raise suspicion that the states where these incidents have occurred are in states where PDP is not in office,” he said.

“So I can accuse them of doing this because they cannot win the election in those states. But I am not going to join them. Truth is the sensible thing to do is to challenge the security agencies and INEC to find out what happened, and what went wrong.”

Oshiomhole said if PDP chooses to make allegations, they are free, but the APC would not join them and be distracted.




Share this on WhatsApp