Share this on WhatsApp







Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar was moved by deep emotion when leaders of socio-cultural groups across the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria in consensus endorsed him in Abuja as the Presidential candidate to be supported by their respective loyalists in the 2019 general elections.
The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in a statement on Sunday indicated that he was moved by fears at the news of the endorsement, stating that the endorsement challenged him on his responsibility to make Nigeria better.
Atiku in the statement declared: “I am moved to tears that in the midst of deep divisions and deliberate use of instrumentalities of State to set our people against themselves in the last three and a half years, responsible and respected leaders across Nigeria have agreed to come together for the purpose of endorsing my candidature for the February 16th, 2019 Presidential elections.
“The endorsement by the leading lights of our nationalities – Afenifere, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Northern Elders Forum, Pan-Niger Delta Forum and Middle Belt  Forum is a loud statement that there is hope for our country as we go to the polls in a few days.
“Today, we put aside all our prejudices to elect a President with religion and ethnicity playing no role in our elections.
“I profusely thank our Leaders across the country who have created this wonderful moment for us to come to the table of brotherhood.
“Once again, and in the words of our old National Anthem, we can proudly sing: “Though tribes and tongues may differ, in brotherhood we stand”
“This has buoyed me to lead a Pan-Nigerian team that will give practical interpretation to what has been done by the time I take leadership of our country, by the grace of Allah, on May 29, 2019.”
The PDP candidate noted that many countries of the world have been led into disintegration by strongmen (one in each country), adding, “and we have seen how individuals who understand the management of diversities have rallied their people for unity.”
Atiku remarked: “I have been chosen to unite our people and exactly that I will.”
He thereafter, promised not to fail the people.
“I will run a properly federated Nigeria through constitutional reforms to bring out the best from ALL sections of Nigeria to make Nigeria work again like in the past when the Saudi Royal family came to Nigeria to access Medicare.
“We will promote an inclusive Nigeria based on productivity that every section of Nigeria will bring out the best under their soil, and in their brain to make Nigeria assume its position in Africa and the global community.
“It would be 100% for every section of Nigeria as I would not understand any arithmetic outside that,” Atiku promised.
He appealed to all people across Nigeria to come out en-mass to vote on February 16 to pull the country from the brink and propel it to greater heights so Nigerians can live a better life.
“Take my words as a covenant with Nigeria,” he said.















Share this on WhatsApp