Share this on WhatsApp
The Kaduna State Chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria has dismissed Gov. Nasir el-Rufai claims that 66 persons were killed by gunmen in the Kajuru Local Government Area of the state.
The state CAN Chairman and Rev. Joseph Hayab  said this in a statement, insisting that the governor deliberately gave out the wrong information to deceive Nigerians and the international community.
According to him, the false alarm in a statement by the governor on Friday evening, was aimed at stirring up violence in the state.
“We are aware that the incident happened in the late hours of Sunday 10 February to February 12, 2019, at about 1am at Gindin Gada in the Maro Ward of Kajuru Local Government, Kaduna State where unidentified hoodlums went into the village and killed about 11 people in their sleep.
“The incident led to reprisals. Two of the suspects were said to have been apprehended and handed over to the Divisional Police Officer in the area. It was in the afternoon of the said date of the attack (as contained in the press statement) that the District Head of Kufana, Mr Titus Dauda, and four of his local chiefs were released after their invitation by the Department of State Services.
“We see this as an illogical intentional, premeditated attempt at stirring violence in the state for whatever expected gains.
“The incidence of raising false alarm by the Kaduna State Government should make Nigerians realise that some of our leaders are also guilty of hate speech and that makes them major actors in the game that has denied us peace and has claimed the lives of our love ones.’’
Also the senator representing Kaduna Central senatorial district which covers the local government area also wondered why the incident that happened on Sunday would be made an issue on the eve of the general elections.
“What the people of the area told me was that the issue happened since Sunday and the security agencies waded in and resolved it immediately. There was no tension that can threaten peace in the area.
The Zonal Coordinator, North-West office of the National Emergency Management Agency, Mr. Ishaya Chonoko, said that there were no fresh killings in Kajuru LGA on Friday as claimed by the governor.
He attributed the wrong information to the activities of those he described as “unpatriotic Nigerians” who were out to take advantage of the general elections to instigate violence in the state.
“There was an attack last week (Sunday) where 11 people were said to have been killed. It was the usual tribal clash between the Fulani and the indigenes. Anytime there is a clash between two tribes in Kaduna, there is usually reprisal,” he told the Punch.
“We made necessary contacts only to discover that it was merely a rumour to instigate violence. Please disregard it. It is not true at all.”
Share this on WhatsApp