Share this on WhatsApp
The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Peugeot Automobile Nigeria (PAN), Ibrahim Boyi has raised fresh alarm on the disturbing nature of capacity job gaps in the nation’s auto industry, saying “There are over 45,000 capacity job gap in the automobile after- sales, repairs and services value chain, requiring skills and competent modern auto mechanics with knowledge of technological trend in the auto industry”.

Speaking in Kaduna at the graduation ceremony of about 80 trainees of United Nations Development Program (UNDP) Technical Skill Acquisition Program (TSAP) Batch B at PAN Learning Centre (PLC), he described the graduating trainees as fortunate.

Boyi informed the trainees that “This is a unique opportunity for you, because out of 750 that UNDP identified, you are among the chosen few. Make good use of it.”

He highlighted that the program is well structured, and much targeted with youths trained in Auto mechanics, Auto mechatronics, Auto spraying, Welding and panel beating crowned with City & Guilds Certifications. It is also accompanied with standard knowledge of fault finding in modern vehicles, and consciousness in environmental protection to prevent environmental pollution through standard oil removal, as advocated by National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC) for ideal standard requirement in training world class technicians and mechanics.

In her remarks, the UNDP Country Representative, Ms Khardiata Lo Ndiaye thanked the Norwegian Government for its continuous support to UNDP programs in Nigeria.
She applauded the management and staff of PAN Learning Centre for their dedication, commitment and understanding to transform the lives of these young Nigerians through impacting skills and knowledge in them and make them useful to the society.

Details of the graduating trainees made available to Business Hilights showed that amongst the graduands are 20 ladies, trained in auto mechanics, auto mechatronics, panel beating, welding and spray painting.

The DG PAN Learning Centre, Mrs Elizabeth Mordi who expressed happiness on the smooth completion of their training on Body Works (BW), said “The institute is committed to equal opportunity and gender equality.”

She added that “The trainees went through compulsory ICT training to Diploma level as well as FRSC accredited PAN Driving School for Defensive Driving Skill, PAN Learning Centre (PLC) has promoted the empowerment of young women and has trained over 300 in the past years.”

The ceremony was concluded with distribution of Certificates, tools and equipment to the trainees and a guided tour of PLC for the UNDP Country Rep.
Share this on WhatsApp