Share this on WhatsApp
The first edition of the Ultra Marathon Race in Nigeria, tagged Remo International Ultra Marathon Race, has been scheduled to hold in December 2019 with male and female runners competing for honours in the 60kilometres race, National Daily learnt.
The race which would be sponsored by Nigeria’s foremost sports philanthropist and chairman of Bet9ja, Mr. Kunle Soname, has been approved to be an African Challenge where top African marathoners would compete for the grand prizes.
The approval, according to the president of the International Association of Ultra Marathon Race in Africa, Chief Solomon Ogba, was given by the world president, Professor Nadean Kahn, an International Athletics Federation representative, after a meeting with Mr. Soname last weekend.
Ogba, a former president of the Athletic Federation of Nigeria, disclosed that: “A delegation of some African countries led by the world president met with Mr. Soname last weekend, where the decision was taken.
“It was at this meeting that, Nilayo Sports Management Limited, owned by Bukola Olopade, was appointed as the company solely in charge of marketing and branding for the Remo International Ultra Marathon Race.”
Ogba, who is also the First Vice president of the Nigeria Olympic Committee, revealed that, aside from the 60 km Ultra Marathon race, there would be a 10km and 5 km races for other runners so as to generate more interests for the event that would showcase the entire Remo kingdom, with the finish point at the Sagamu International Stadium.
The Africa president added that: “The Ultra Marathon is held in the rural areas. And as time goes by, the world federation will pick a date in December 2019 for the Remo event.”
A ultramarathon is any organised footrace extending beyond the standard marathon running distance of 42 kilometres, 195 metres. Ultra races typically begin at 50 kilometers and can extend to enormous distances. There is no limit.
The International Association of Ultrarunners (IAU) organises the World Championships for various ultramarathon distances.
Share this on WhatsApp