The Nigerian Army on Tuesday said it would continue to protect the lives and properties of all Nigerians in the South East zone and other parts of the country.
It also expressed its determination to ensure that a peaceful and secured conduct of free, fair and credible 2019 general elections on Saturday.
According to the Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Col Sagir Musa in a press statement while reacting to alleged balkanisation, abduction and killings of some members of the proscribed Independent People of Biafra (IPOB), explained that Nigerian Army personnel were not involved as alleged by the Secretary of the proscribed organisation.
He further explained that “Contrary to the dubious and bunkum claims made in the latest news release made available to the press on Tuesday, the 12th of February 2019 by the so called Secretary for the proscribed Independent People of Biafra (IPOB) alleging “the killing of two young men in Owerri and the imaginary abduction of Biafrans” in Aba, Abia State.
“As a professional and responsible organisation, the Nigerian Army, under the leadership of Lieutenant General Tukur Yusuf Buratai, has variously and sufficiently – (both in deeds and actions) made it clear that it will not encourage or condone any form of professional misconduct especially  human rights abuses,” he said.
While branding IPOB as an “illegal” organisation, Col Musa further reiterated that “The NA will not join words with an illegal organization but to set the record straight against the kind of divisive, selfish and wicked propaganda and misinformation mischievously being perpetrated by the proscribed IPOB.
“The Nigerian army ably represented by the 82 Division in the South East, will continue to protect the lives and properties of all Nigerians in the zone and is determined to ensure peaceful and secured conduct of free, fair and credible 2019 general elections.
“For awareness and further clarification, – civilians are not detained in conventional army detention centres except under exceptional situations such as on charges of terrorism, insurgency or any form of armed insurrection among others.
“So, anyone arrested by the Nigerian Army during the ongoing Exercise EGWU EKE 111 has been handed over to the civil police for further necessary action.
The army spokesperson, therefore, enjoined members of the public “to disregard any form of divisive and inciting propaganda particularly the ones coming from the likes of miscreants and  outlawed organizations like IPOB,” he reiterated.
It would be recalled that the Media and Publicity Secretary of the proscribed Independent People of Biafra (IPOB), Comrade Emma Powerful, had on Monday labelled the Nigerian Army to have shot dead two young men in Owerri and abducted other Biafrans.

			
			Post Views: 
			41