Share this on WhatsApp
The Chief of Army Staff Nigerian Army (NA), Lieutenant General Tukur Yusuf Buratai has launched Elections Monitoring and Security Situation Room with a view to safeguarding and strengthening Nigeria’s democracy.
The launching/commissioning ceremony was carried out at the Nigerian Army Cyber Warfare Command, Army Headquarters, Abuja.
Gen Buratai remarked that “As a stakeholder in safeguarding Nigeria’s democracy, the NA requires real-time security situational awareness regarding the electoral processes nationwide in order to be well positioned to adequately respond, should the need arise.”
He further stated that “The security situation monitoring solution acquired by the NA for this purpose, has been designed to avail a clear security situation during the electioneering period.”
To ensure quick access and dissemination of information to the army authority, the COAS also unveiled dedicated telephone lines for members of the public to utilise in sending timely and credible information of security value.
Such lines would be used for SMS, MMS or Whatsapp message to the following cellphone  numbers: 07017222225, 09060005290, 08099900131 and 08077444303.
It was further learnt that members of the public have also been enjoined to utilize the NA information call centre short code 193 from any network provider.
According to the Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Col Sagir Musa, added in a statement that “digital cameras have been effectively mounted nationwide to monitor identified flash points to forestall any breach of peace in addition to cameras that have been stationed strategically in all the states to monitor the elections.
It would, in addition, provide unfettered opportunity to civil populace to send reports of security interest in their localities including any case of wrong doing or unprofessional conduct on the part of troops deployed to secure and safeguard the electoral process.
“Let me also use this opportunity to reiterate the total commitment of the NA under my leadership to a free, fair, transparent and credible 2019 elections”, Gen Buratai reiterated.
Share this on WhatsApp