Share this on WhatsApp
 
People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar yesterday promised to revive the country’s ailing economy and make Lagos the commercial capital of Africa.
Address a cheering crowd at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS), Lagos, venue of the PDP presidential rally, Atiku said as a Lagos boy, he passed through the hustle and bustle of the Centre of Excellence.
The PDP candidate added he had never reneged on any promise, noting he would restructure the country and ensure true federalism.
A vote for him, he said, is a vote for job security and end to unemployment.
“I am not like the All Progressive Congress (APC) that makes empty promises. I promise Nigerians that I will restructure the country; I will do it.
“I promise to create jobs, I will do it. Today, the country is writhing in insecurity. Initially, insecurity was limited to the Northeast, but had spread to the Northwest and North central.
“I promise to reverse all these trends. I promise to work with the National Assembly, protect the judiciary and respect the rule of law, if I become the President.
“You also saw for yourself when President Muhammadu Buhari came to Lagos, all the trailers disappeared on the Ojuelegba and Apapa bridges, but immediately he left, they come back. It means the traffic issue in Lagos can be addressed.”
PDP National Chairman Uche Secondus said the party was sure of victory on Saturday. He noted that the trend of the PDP rallies across the country was favourable.
“Today, we are in the Centre of Excellence and commercial nerve of Nigeria. You saw what happened in Kano, Katsina, the Northwest, Northcentral and Southwest. Everywhere PDP campaigns, the whole place was shut down.
“The man the PDP is putting forward is competent and can do the job. He will bring his full ability to rescue the country. Our financial and business climate will boom again.”
Senate President Bukola Saraki said a vote for Atiku is a vote for better economy and better life. He noted that when Atiku is given the mandate on Saturday, the country would start a new journey for progress.
He said the PDP candidate had the capacity to revamp the economy and hence, create massive jobs for citizens.
 
Share this on WhatsApp