Share this on WhatsApp
Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha has described Imo politicians as local champions and serial betrayers of their leaders because of peanuts.
Speaking at a press conference inside the Government House, Owerri, the governor noted that Imo politicians are not like those from South West and North who respect their leaders.
“Imo politicians are local champions; you can quote me,’ he said.
“They can collect peanuts in order to destroy their own. But I respect the Hausa and Yoruba politicians, they respect their leaders.”
He said if elected a senator during the February 16 elections, he would attract projects to the state unlike the past and current occupants of the seat who he alleged did not attract “even a bungalow” to the state.
“I am going to the Senate for two things: first reason is to represent Imo State and Igboland.
“The second reason is to make sure that what is due us comes here. I want to be politically relevant after I leave office as governor,” he said.
The governor also urged the people of the state to vote for his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, who is the governorship candidate of the Action Alliance in the state.
He expressed the confidence that Nwosu would continue from where would will stop and develop the state further.
He expressed optimism that with him as a senator and Nwosu as governor, the state would witness rapid development.
He lashed out at his deputy Eze Madumere, for allegedly betraying him.
“Look at Madumere. Today, he would have been a senator, but he betrayed me. The Hope Uzodinma he is supporting today, where is he from? Is he not from the same Orlu zone where Uche Nwosu comes from?
“Have you been to Madumere’s house? Is it not bigger than this Government House? Look at Emma Ibediro that I fought hard so that he can become the APC’s National Organising Secretary, today he has betrayed me.
He mentioned others he raised to relevance, including Osita Izunaso, APC’s first National Organising Secretary, George Eche, Accountant-General and later Secretary to the State Government.
“It is in their blood to betray people,” he regretted.
Share this on WhatsApp