Share this on WhatsApp
 
By ODIMMEGWA JOHNPETER, Abuja
President Muhammadu Buhari, again, made history in Baro, Niger State, when he commissioned the long abandoned but resuscitated Baro River Port.
While Commissioning the River Port over the weekend, Buhari reiterated that it was in fulfilment of his Administration’s promise to complete all abandoned projects by previous Administrations both in Niger State and other parts of the Country.
The President added that his administration is working tirelessly to reposition the economy through provision of modern infrastructural development to ensure efficient security as well as continue the fight against corruption. 
He noted that Government will continue to pursue the timely completion of the Standard Gauge Railway Project and ensure that the whole country is linked by rail.
Buhari called on Nigerians to vote the All Progressives Congress (APC) Government into power again in order to ensure that all ongoing projects embarked upon by his administration are delivered timely. He maintained that “If you are able to elect this government back, we will try and put the port in a busy state…. do the dredging, do the infrastructure to connect the port then to connect Abuja with the Double Carriage way. If you want this development; if you want this project and if you want security to continue, vote APC back,” he enthused.
According to President Buhari, as the then Chairman of Petroleum Trust Fund, PTF, the development of Baro port was part of his strategic plan to develop the Nigerian Inland Waterways which spans over 10, 000 kilometres across 28 States of Nigeria. He noted: “when I was the Chairman of PTF, I came up with a comprehensive master plan to dredge the River Niger up to this place and build a Double Carriage way from here to Abuja to link up to Kano and up to Maiduguri but unfortunately, some successive governments aborted that plan”.
The Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, expressed gratitude to the Federal Government for making the commissioning of the Baro River Port a reality. He noted that it was in compliance with President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive that all abandoned projects by previous administrations and ongoing projects must be completed timely. He called for the effective use of the facility.
Speaking earlier, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Inland Waterways Authority, NIWA, Sen. Olorunnibe Mamora, stated that there was a Colonial Port in Baro, Niger State which served the Inland Water Transportation needs of the people and thrived until the late 1970s. He further informed that it was this same port that has been resuscitated for commissioning by Mr. President.
According to him, “considering the huge benefits of Inland Water Transportation and Baro’s strategic location for the evacuation of farm products and other commodities, the present government of President Muhammadu Buhari’s Administration vigorously pursued the completion of this River Port which has since been abandoned by previous administrations and ensured the provision of the required equipment for its effectiveness and efficient functioning. If you may recall, there was a Colonial Port here in Baro which served the Inland Water transportation needs of our people”.
Briefing the President on the state of facility as he took him round the Port, he said the Port has quay length of 150 Meters, Cargo Stacking Yard of 7, 000 Square Meters, a Transit Shed of 3,600 Square Meters. He further said that some of the installed machineries are the 84-ton mobile Harbour Crane, one reach Starker and 3 forklifts of varying capacities amongst others. 
Dignitaries present at the commissioning were the Executive Governor of Niger State, Abubakar Sani Bello, Traditional Council of Agaie led by the Emir, His Royal Highness, Etsu Agaie Alhj. Yusufu Nuhu, some Directors in the Ministry of Transportation, Abuja and other critical Stakeholders in the sector.
 
Share this on WhatsApp