Share this on WhatsApp
Federal government has approved the rules that will guide the operations of Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) disciplinary tribunal.
The tribunal is expected to sanction bankers that breached the industry’s operational guidelines.
The approval, the CIBN said in a statement, has further strengthened members’/customers’ confidence in the industry.
Abubakar Malami, attorney general of the Federation and minister of Justice, consented to the rules on behalf of the Federal Government.
The rules prescribe the proceedings to be observed by the tribunal in the hearing and determination of complaints as well as recommending appropriate sanctions to be meted out to erring members of the institute upon establishment of a prima facie case by the investigating panel.
The tribunal which also looks into cases of ethical and professional misconducts by members of the institute, will be involved in the appointment of chairman and other members of the Disciplinary Tribunal; reference to the Disciplinary Tribunal; convening of the Tribunal; composition and proceedings of the Tribunal; parties to the proceedings before the Tribunal, service of processes, among others.
It will also look into directions and case management practice directions, failure to comply with rules, practice directions or tribunal directions, general powers of the tribunal, lead compliant, petition or matter; consent Orders, amendment of processes before the tribunal and withdrawal.
Other provisions of the rules include striking out of a case brought before the tribunal, fixing of listing of hearing date and service of notice, etc by the secretary, legal representatives, holding proceedings in public or private hearings among other provisions.
The rules stated that “any complaint, written allegation or petition that relates to professional or ethical misconduct or breach of any of the provisions of the Banker’s Code of Conduct in the Nigerian Banking Industry, shall be addressed to the Registrar/Chief Executive Officer of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria”.
The disciplinary tribunal adjudicates on cases of ethical and professional misconduct by members of the institute. The rules are expected to further improve and promote ethical practice and professionalism in the Nigeria banking industry.
 
Share this on WhatsApp