Share this on WhatsApp



Many dead
Governors convoy attacked



The All Progress Congress, APC,  has been alleged to be behind the fracas that led to the death of over five persons during a rally of President Muhammad Bulgari campaign team in Taraba state on Thursday, National Daily has gathered.


According to findings by National Daily, the thugs who unleashed the terror were imported from neighbouring states to create the false impression that the party enjoys a large following.

Speaking on the incident,  Senior Special Assistant to the state governor on Media and Publicity, Ball Dan Abu, said the thugs came heavily armed with the intention of creating chaos in the state.


He said the convoy of the State Governor Ishaku was attacked on its way out of the Danbaba Suntai Airport.This, he said occurred when the governor and his deputy Haruna Manu and other officials of the government went to see off President Buhari after the rally.


He also accused security agents of negligence of duty. “The deputy governor’s car and several other cars in the convoy, including that of the commissioner of police and a special Adviser to the governor, were damaged.

“They carried guns, cutlasses and sticks, which they displayed openly and in the full glare of security agents who merely looked the other way,” Abu said.

He accused those he described as “APC thugs” of going round Jalingo metropolis and destroying PDP posters and billboards.


“They were given cover by the security agencies who fired gunshots to scare away those who may dare to confront them.

“What happened on Thursday was a big contrast to the PDP presidential flag-off of February 5 in Jalingo, which attracted a large crowd but recorded no incidence of crisis and deaths.

“Residents of Wukari are still leaking the wounds of the APC violent visitation of January 29, during which PDP posters and bill boards were torn and a member of the PDP killed.

“The Taraba State government will no longer fold its arms while innocent people are being killed and maimed,” Abu said.



 
Share this on WhatsApp