Lugbe Magistrates’ Court, Abuja on Tuesday sentenced Suleiman Ayuba to four years imprisonment for cutting off his neighbour’s hand.

Ayuba, a resident of Aso Sabo Lugbe Airport Road, Abuja, was arraigned alongside his brother, Suleiman Zakari, on a three-count charge of disturbance of public peace, assault and causing grievous hurt.

The Magistrate, Mr Idharhi Samuel, in his judgment, sentenced Ayuba to four years imprisonment without option of fine. Samuel ordered that the convict should be taken to Kuje Prisons where he is expected to serve the prison terms.

The magistrate also sentenced Suleiman Zakari to six months imprisonment with an option of N6, 000 fine.

He warned the convicts to desist from committing crimes after serving out their punishment.

The magistrate said that the punishment would have been more severe if they had not pleaded guilty and saved the court the pains of prolonged prosecution.

He held that his judgment would serve as deterrent to others and ordered the police to bring Iliyasu Abdullahi, whose hand was cut off to the court after his treatment.

 The Prosecutor, Mrs Ukoha Ndidi, had earlier told the court that the three men  were arrested and brought to Lugbe Police Station on Feb. 2. Ndidi said that on the same date, at about 9: p. m., Ayuba, Zakari and Abdullahi for no reason, violently engaged themselves in a fight resulting in disturbance of public peace.

 She said in the process of mediating peace by Rakiya, surname unknown, Abdullahi brought his cutlass and cut her.

The prosecutor said in return Ayuba intentionally and violently used the same cutlass and cut off Abdullahi’s hand.

The prosecutor explained that as a result, Abdullahi sustained grievous hurt and was rushed to the hospital. She said they were immediately apprehended and handed over to the police.

Ndidi said that during police interrogation, they could not give a satisfactory account of their actions.

 According to her, the offences contravene the provisions of Sections 79, 113 and 247 of the Penal Code.

The convicts did not deny the charges preferred against them after their arraignment.