Share this on WhatsApp
By Richards Adeniyi
The Comptroller General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd) has directed a comprehensive investigation into the immediate and remote causes of the incident which resulted Sunday, 17th February 2019 at Shagamu Interchange in the death of a Nigerian, Mr. Godwin Agada Onoja, by Operatives of the Federal Operations Unit Zone A, Lagos.

The Customs Image-maker, Deputy Comptroller, Joseph Attah who confirmed this, said the view was to ensure that justice is served.

 “In line with this directive, the investigation panel headed by the Zonal Coordinator Zone A, ACG Kaycee Ekekezie has interrogated and detained four members of the patrol team.

“The panel could not immediately conclude the investigation because the actual officer (ASCI Destiny Onebamho) whose riffle discharged is presently receiving medical attention as a result of attack following the unfortunate incident. He will face the panel as soon as he is fit to do so, to enable the panel conclude investigation and recommend appropriate action(s)”, highlighted Attah, saying the Service was also working with the family towards adequately cushioning the family’s great loss.

“We are pained by this sad development and share the grief of losing a fellow compatriot in a seemingly avoidable circumstance. We are and will continue to take every necessary step that will cushion the pain associated with losing a dear one.

“NCS is a reputable organization known for integrity and responsibility. In line with our corporate values, we will not shield any operative found wanting in this ongoing investigation. The Service appreciates the public concern and strong emotions drawn from the viral video with narratives that created various opinions.

“Nigerians will recall that in 2017, the Service made public its investigation and dismissal of five (5) officers implicated in the illegal release of the 661-pump action riffles from Apapa Port. The dismissed officers were immediately handed over for prosecution alongside the importer and agent. A prosecution that is ongoing at the Federal High Court, Ikoyi Lagos.

“In the same vein, the ongoing investigation will be holistic including looking at the weapon handling skills and actions that must be taken by the Service to possibly prevent future occurrence.

“We will continue to update the public details of every action taken in the handling of this unfortunate incident”, the image maker further explained.


 
Share this on WhatsApp