Share this on WhatsApp



gives free JAMB forms, ICT training

The Lawmaker representing Ifako Ijaiye constituency II at the Lagos state House of Assembly,Hon.Rasheed Makinde has reaffirmed his resolve to focus more on grooming future leaders through distribution of free JAMB forms and ICT training.
Makinde,who organized the fourth series of free JAMB form distribution and graduation of ICT trained graduants at the All Progressives Congress (APC) party Secretariat in Ojokoro, stated his resolve to better the lots of youths in his constituency.
Speaking with newsmen, the lawmaker disclose that 70 applicants are given their JAMB forms, 162 ICT graduates are also given their certificate after the six months training all at his expense.
“I took up this task since my emergence as an elected lawmaker at the State Assembly three and a half  years ago, to empower my constituents especially the youths, making them self reliant.
“Many of them at the completion of the course are now salary earners, a number of our JAMB candidates in time past are now admitted in different tertiary institutions.
“They are enabled to sponsor themselves through school from their earnings, we have even secure employment for many of them.
Makinde also noted that overall best students in the ICT training will be empowered.
The Director General of Makinde’s Independent Campaign Group, who also heads the education unit the lawmaker’s constituency office,Hon Gbenga Falegan noted that youth education is key to ensuring a better society.
“The Honourable has availed 162 students with computer literacy training for six months free of charge, thereby encouraging computer literacy,he also given 70 students JAMB forms.
“He has also facilitated the installation of CBT training CD’s in the desktops at the centre to help prepare for the examination.
“The overall best in the first and second batches of the ICT trained students, Miss Fareedah Abdulraf who came top in the first batch,got a N200,000 laptop, same goes for Miss Wealth Oyigoja Clement who came first in the second batch.
“Other winners also got mini laptops worth N100,000 each.
Present at the epoch making event are; Special Adviser to the Governor,Chief Benjamin Olabinjo, Dr.Waleel Ipaye,Ojokoro LCDA Christian Association of Nigeria chairman Iyiola Aladewura, Alhaji Hassan Ajeigbe,High Chief I.A Lawal a community leader, High Chief Solomon Dada Baale Ajegunle Ilo community.
Earlier,Alhaji Mohammed Adelaja (Baba Ile Ogbo) the APC apex leader in Ojokoro led other members to commission the Abule-Egba water project donated by Hon.Makinde.
According to Adelaja,our constituency is blessed with competent representatives and so we benefitting dividend of democracy, brought to our doorstep.
‘I urge you all to vote for all APC candidates in the general elections,as a reward for the good gestures from Hon.Makinde.





Share this on WhatsApp