Share this on WhatsApp
Lagos Commissioner of Police Zubairu Muazu speaks with the National Daily on his command’s preparation for the Feb 23 election and what he calls the robust security architecture of Lagos. Interview by Elijah Olusegun, Kingsley Ediale, and Alex Oliseh
 
What level of security has the Lagos command put in place against tomorrow?
We have an air-tight security arrangement for Lagosians to go about voting tomorrow in a safe and secure environment. We are covering the entire roles of the police in election security at all levels—from the pre-election stage through the election proper, and the post-election stage.
We provided security during campaigns, and we ensured there was no major incident. At the election stage, we have arrangement for the safety of the election officers, election material, and the polling units.
What about remote and riverine areas where people are likely to take law into their hands?
There’s nowhere the police does not cover in Lagos. We have stations in Badagry, and other areas covered by our marine command.
Communications channels will be needed to raise the alarm or inform the police. Any preparation for that?
We have already set up a control room where we will coordinate every security aspects in collaboration with other security agencies, including the SS, the military, and others. The hotlines are already out. They are Control 1: 08127155132 and 07035068242
What’s your interpretation of President Muhammadu Buhari’s order—that the security agencies should be ruthless with ballot box snatchers?
The president was very specific in his order. Which is against ballot snatching. That’s just one of the electoral offences. We are going to tolerate neither this—nor any other offence tomorrow. Any ballot-snatchers and other electoral offenders will be dealt with according to the law.
The rank and file may not get this order straight, leading to excess use of force and rights violation. How prepared is the command down the rank?
We have been learning election security since 1999. Concerned NGOs have come to train our men in election security and other aspects of it. I assure you our men will behave professionally tomorrow.
Many are afraid out there tomorrow’s election will be volatile. Is it part of your order to allay this fear?
Our intelligence reports have not confirmed that Lagosians are afraid of coming out tomorrow. But we have taken care of all flash-points in the state. I can assure Lagosians they have nothing to fear tomorrow.
You were just redeployed here not too long. How does it feel policing one of the world’s largest cities, and what more do you have to offer?
I met a lot of security arrangement on the ground. Especially the state’s Security Trust Fund. It’s very robust security architecture which gives Lagos a lot of advantage. It’s the best so far in Nigeria.
So I plan to focus on intelligence policing, technology, and community policing. These are what I will add to what I met on the ground.
Share this on WhatsApp