Leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) leader, Nnamdi Kanu, has lambasted a former militant leader, Mujaheed Asari-Dokubo, for calling on the South-east to vote for Atiku Abubakar.




In a statement signed by IPOB’s Deputy Leader, Uche Okafor-Mefor, Kanu said that Asari-Dokubo should be ashamed of himself for canvassing for votes ahead of the upcoming elections, which according to him has already been compromised.

“Are you not ashamed of yourself for canvassing for the election of the man who was VP when Odi was put to the sword. You fought for resource control and failed so you want Nnamdi Kanu to repeat your mistakes? No! It will never ever happen. Nnamdi Kanu is a freedom fighter not a resource control advocate like you. There lies the difference between two of you.

“We cannot mix resource control with freedom of the people of Biafra. Allow me to state unequivocally that Nnamdi Kanu is not for resource control.

“He is absolutely for freedom of Biafra and her people and as such evidently too powerful and sophisticated for certain small, jolted minds that lack discipline and unbridled, decent sense of collectedness.

“Our commitment is absolute, our resolve insurmountable, it must sink into the consciousness of these political contractors who claim to be freedom fighters that our decision to boycott this already rigged presidential election is irreversible and settled unless our demands for equity, fairness and justice are met.

“You said you are no longer a Nigerian, what then are you doing canvassing for voting in Nigeria. Do you think Nnamdi Kanu is like you that collected Amnesty money from Yar’Adua and the regime of Obasanjo/Atiku that slaughtered thousands of our brethren in Odi and other areas.

“You allowed politicians to purchase your conscience, Nnamdi Kanu is not an ordinary human being and very soon you will realise this. Nnamdi Kanu is not as hungry as you are because a poor man should not embark on freedom fighting. Go back to your business interests in Cotonou and leave freedom fighting to freedom fighters. Keep ranting for your one Nigeria. I pray you don’t suffer the fate of our illustrious heroes like Isaac Adaka Boro and Ken Saro-Wiwa,” the statement read.





			
			Post Views: 
			61