Share this on WhatsApp
The Norwegian is cut from the same cloth as the Red Devils’ most successful manager, according to the English full-back
Manchester United defender Ashley Young has praised Ole Gunnar Solskjaer for his immediate impact at Old Trafford, likening him to club legend Sir Alex Ferguson.
The 45-year-old was installed as interim boss back in December and he has since overseen a run of nine wins from 10 matches across all competitions.
A comfortable 3-0 win at Craven Cottage against Fulham on Saturday ensured that the Red Devils now occupy the final Champions League spot in the Premier League  , having clawed their way back from an 11-point deficit.
Solskjaer has been credited for getting the best out of United’s star players and for his preferred style of play, which harks back to the glory days under Ferguson.
Young heaped praise on Solskjaer and compared him to the Scottish master, stating that both men have the shared obsession of winning football matches.
“When Ole Gunnar happened, somehow, I almost felt that Sir Alex had returned,” the England star told  L’Equipe   .
“Because he was accompanied by Mike Phelan (Ferguson’s old assistant) and Michael Carrick, but also because Ole Gunnar knows exactly what it means to play for this club, he is obsessed with both victory and the fact that his players thrive on the field, like Sir Alex.”
Ferguson signed Young from Aston Villa back in 2011 and he helped the team win the Premier League title in 2013, which remains his crowning achievement in the game.
Looking back on his two years working with Ferguson, Young went on to acknowledge how lucky he was to have played under the former United boss.
“He rarely spoke in the dressing room,” he added. “But he has such an aura that, as soon as he opens his mouth, all the players were silent, sat down and listened, and today I realise how lucky I was to play under him, that’s one of the great sources of pride in my career.”
Young was speaking ahead of United’s first leg last-16 clash against Paris Saint-Germain in the Champions League on Tuesday night  , which will see the French champions arrive at Old Trafford.
The 33-year-old is expected to start at right-back against the Ligue 1 outfit, having been converted into a full-back from a winger in recent seasons.
“If I really had the choice, I would play winger, my favourite position,” Young continued. “But over the years I’ve been here I’ve been playing different roles, I did not have a problem because I think I have a good understanding of the game. I also understood that this versatility is an asset for me, and for the club.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp