says its opposed to PDP not INEC

The Co-Chairman Presidential Campaign Council and All Progressives
Congress (APC), National Leader Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu has urge the
party stakeholders to accommodate Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)
decampees and team up to ensure victory for APC.
Tinubu made this assertion at a stakeholders parley held at APC
secretariat in Lagos, citing the fact that he has a lot of former PDP
members in his team of confidantes now because of being able to close
ranks with people in the opponent camp before.
“They were in PDP before now in APC, don’t fight them rather
accommodate them, please I plead with you, I and Demola
Seriki,Obanikoro and DaSilva, who were former PDP are now very close,
we will wrong ourselves often but we will call on God to forgive, so
we should also forgive others, if you cannot forgive others.
“We are going to vote, we have accepted INEC’s postponement, no nation
without obstacles and challenges but how you manage it, INEC is not
our opponent but the PDP, we are going to win them at poll, they don’t
have our strength in North West, South West, North East, and Middle
Belt, so where will they win.
“Who are we fighting? We are fighting PDP, we are not concerned about
INEC, and they have the rule and law on their side, they postpone the
election, any airplane can get into turbulence, they have tried to
manage the situation.
“INEC will land safely and happily with this election and APC will
win, it is our election, we have buried their mother, I have come to
felicitate with you, they say don’t want to see you, they don’t want
you to vote, they are the ones we will not see.
Tinubu also counseled all those having issues in their domain to go
and mend fence with their leaders at their local government and wards.
“You must have your meetings tonight; ascertain how many polling
booths you have, you must deliver. All the 57 local government party
chairmen, let’s meet in bourdillon tomorrow, for a secret caucus
meeting, they don’t want us to vote but we will beat them.
The APC Chieftain however, reaffirmed President Muhammadu Buhari stand
point on, thuggery and ballot snatching, noting that GMB remains the
commander in chief and his pronouncement stands.
“Let me warn our boys, you have heard Buhari’s take on thuggery and
ballot box snatching, I don’t command the army, the PVC is my own
army, we must go out and elect our candidates as President and
National Assembly members.
Tinubu also appeal to Ibo brothers in Lagos to vote for APC, noting
that they have benefitted immensely from the state without any
discrimination, “now they should reward us for our tolerance by voting
APC”
“I saved ASPANDA from demolition, if they are now against our candidates and doing what they want, we know how to behave.
 

			
			PV: 
			0