Share this on WhatsApp
Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino has apologised to Mike Dean and said he will accept the FA charge of improper conduct for confronting the referee following Saturday’s defeat at Burnley.
Pochettino could now face the first touchline ban of his managerial career after admitting “he crossed a line” but he refused to reveal what Dean said to him at Turf Moor.
Dean has been stood down as fourth official for Spurs’ visit to Chelsea on Wednesday and Pochettino said he was sorry he could not apologize in person.
He added that he would not request a personal hearing with the FA to explain his actions, and an independent panel will now meet to decide his punishment.
“I will accept that charge,” Pochettino said on Thursday. “Watching my behavior on TV, I think I need to accept the charge from the FA. At the same time I need to apologize to Mike Dean.
“Right or wrong that I wanted to complain, I cannot behave in that way. Of course I want to apologize to Mike Dean and all the referees who were involved there. I think it’s not a way to behave and of course I’m going to accept the charge from the FA.
“My behavior was public and now I want to apologize in public too.
“I think the people understood to be honest [that] my behavior wasn’t too bad. Of course there’s a limit you cannot cross.
“I maybe put my toe on the line but always I was respectful. But when the emotion and frustration arrives after the game…
“I told you that for me it was the most important game to play, to put pressure on the opponents and the teams above us, and that’s why I was so frustrated, so disappointed with the result.
I didn’t want to justify the defeat and complain with the referee. Your heart-rate starts to push. I need to tell you I never lost control. I was under control but of course in that moment the thing happened.
“But I think it’s going to help me and I hope I don’t repeat this type of situation. It’s not going to help my team, my club, the job of the referees and of course myself. I think I’m a very smart person who cannot repeat the same mistake.”
Asked if Dean had said something to him, Pochettino added: “All that happened on the pitch, I think must stay there.
“When I was a player, always when I had a problem with my team-mate or with the opponent, I loved to fix the problem on the pitch.
“Only it’s a bad situation that happened but I think it’s not an issue to continue with because it’s not a big deal.
“I’m not going to say anything. For me it’s not important because I don’t take it personally. When you’re competing, when you’re on the pitch, when your heart-rate is so high, you need to be careful how you take the words.
“It’s like the thing that happened on the touchline, with another dug-out. It’s because you’re playing, you’re excited, with your heart-rate so high.
“It’s never personal and after, when you’re more relaxed, it’s a thing that’s not important. All that happens on the pitch, I never translate for outside.”
“I feel sorry for that because I wanted to see him tomorrow and apologise in person. In my mind I still believe I’m right but in the way that I behaved, it’s not right.
“That is the point. Of course I wanted to apologise because I think you can wait half an hour and then talk with him, and for sure both should behave differently.”
“For me he’s one of the best referees,” Pochettino added. “For me all the referees are really good and I never had a problem. I think I made bigger my problem in my head because for me it was one of the most important games to play, and the three points were so important to put pressure on our opponents.
“Of course I was frustrated because of our performance, our mistakes and many things during the game and maybe I crossed a little bit this line, and I paid with the officials. That’s why I want to apologise, because my behaviour wasn’t good.”
Spurs will be without Dele Alli (hamstring) and Eric Dier (tonsilitis) at Chelsea, who they lead by 10 points having played a game more.
Share this on WhatsApp