Share this on WhatsApp





The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) says its decision to call off the boycott of 2019 general elections by its members was the reason why the Independent National Electoral Commission postponed the elections by a week.

INEC chairman, Professor Mahmood, had few hours before the commencement of the presidential and National Assembly election on Saturday, announced the postponement of the poll to February 23, while the governorship and House of Assembly poll scheduled earlier for March 2, are to hold on March 9.

In a statement on Saturday, IPOB spokesman, Emma Powerful, said the move by IPOB apex leadership to call off the boycott made it virtually impossible for Jubril and his handlers to proceed to rig the elections on the account that IPOB boycotted the polls.

It said the announcement by Kanu reversing the group’s boycott order allegedly threw President Muhammadu Buhari and the cabal in his government into confusion and made it impossible for “Jubril and his handlers to proceed to rig the elections.”

“ It is now clear for the world to see that some nefarious elements within the corridors of power in Aso Rock wanted so desperately for IPOB to boycott these elections in order to justify their already perfected script that our boycott made it possible for them to emerge victorious. By calling off the boycott, Jubril and his cabal lost the initiative and were headed straight for defeat.

“Our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, the prophet of our time, is light years ahead of the intrigues and machinations that characterize politics in Nigeria.

“Had the leadership of our great movement IPOB not called off the boycott, the sham elections would have proceeded as rigged, with a Sudanese impostor Jubril announced as the winner on account that IPOB boycotted the exercise.

”Anybody who is still in doubt about the potency of IPOB will undoubtedly have a rethink after this. Quite obviously, the IPOB boycott call off took the Nigerian corrupt establishment unawares. A simple statement from our leader has exposed voting in Nigeria as a huge joke. Let the riggers go back and plan how to rig well. What a country, what a contraption.

“IPOB late announcement of the lifting of the boycott was what led to this last minute postponement by INEC, because they had ample time throughout the week to postpone the elections but failed to do so. The fear of IPOB is the beginning of wisdom, only fools pretend otherwise,” he said.





Share this on WhatsApp