Share this on WhatsApp

says central collation is designed for rigging

The National Chairman of the Peoples’ Democratic Party, PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, says the creation of central collation center by the INEC Chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu is to meet the needs of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, in the manipulation of the polls.
Prince Secondus who raised the alarm while addressing a mammoth crowd of party supporters at Haliru Abdu Staduim in Birini Kebbi in Kebbi state on Sunday, said that Prof Yakubu has succumbed to pressure from the APC to have a central collation center away from the usual practice in the past to create room for rigging.

In a statement from his media office signed by Ike Abonyi, Prince Secondus said that names of people who will handle the collation are being handed down to INEC whose leadership appear to be lacking in the strong will to resist APC pressure.

He said that the names being compiled secretly are APC sympathizes as INEC leadership succumbed to pressure from APC who now know that Nigerians have rejected them.

The National Chairman reiterated his earlier position that Nigerians will not accept a rigged election and will do everything humanly possible to resist the thwarting of the will of the people.

Prince Secondus said APC is being rejected by Nigerians because they were given the mandate to change the country for good but their three years reign has ended up breeding hunger, poverty and unemployment in an unprecedented manner in the land.

“The candidate  we are presenting to you has all it takes to run a solid administration, he has been tested and tried both in private and public sector and he will provide food on your table as well as create jobs for youths of Nigeria,” he said.

Meanwhile, Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the party, assured the people that PDP on the throne will ameliorate their suffering, create jobs, and end their hunger and insecurity.

 The Senate President and the Director General of the campaign, Dr. Bukola Saraki, speaking on the same vein urged the people to vote PDP in all the elections and kick out poverty.

The Governor of Sokoto state, Rt Honourable Aminu Tambuwal who is the coordinator of the PDP Presidential campaign also spoke in the same vain urging the people to vote right for candidates of the party all the way.

Share this on WhatsApp