Share this on WhatsApp







CUPP has alleged that the APC plot to adopt the INEC ‘Osun Template’ was busted by the US, leading to the postponement of this Saturday elections across the country.
 
CUPP in a statement by its spokesman Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, said: “Nigerians should be grateful to the United States for saving our democracy today. This is why the party in power got frustrated about the international communities interference at one point and threatened “body bags” because they know, “Americans would know” of every plot to rig the 2019 elections for APC.
 
The CUPP acknowledged that Nigeria is a sovereign state, but declared that “there was nothing Nigerians would have done tonight to prevent Mohammadu Buhari from rigging this election if not for the intervention of the US.”
 
The CUPP Spokesperson alleged that the Buhari administration in collaboration with INEC had an agenda on how to rig the election in favor of Buhari. He declared: “This was what they were planning to execute tonight with the postponement drama when the United States Government got a wind of it and called the INEC Chairman not to dare!”
 
Their Plan…
 
The CUPP Spokesperson, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, narrated that the purported Buhari and INECstrategy was to allow elections hold in 26 states and postpone elections in 10 states. He revealed that for the 10 states, they had two plans which include late arrival of election materials and security crisis.
 
“The idea was to deliberately allow materials arrive late as we are already witnessing in some states and INEC would have no option but to postpone elections in those states. “For instance, the aircraft that was supposed to deliver materials to Enugu was told it can’t land because of bad weather conditions and it had to land in Port Harcourt. Right before us, elections in Enugu would have been postponed,” Ugochinyere,declared.  
 
The CUPP Spokesperson also alleged that the crisis template was being executed in Kaduna today, noting that the news of the killing of 66 people in Kaduna State today was part of the plan to create an atmosphere of insecurity so that INEC would postpone the election in Kaduna State, citing security challenges. Ugochinyere said that the news of the killings was fabricated and sponsored by the three inches ‘body bag’ Governor of that state, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai.
 
Ugochinyere further narrated that for the 26 states that elections would have held, the plan was to watch out for the outcome. “If it favours Atiku, whatever the margin is, they would deploy heavy security agents to ensure they get enough votes to cover up the margin in the 10 states that elections were to be postponed as they did in Osun State,” he said.
 
The CUPP Spokesperson was of the view: “With this plan, Buhari would be elected back as president… but the US said, NO!! Elections across the 36 states must hold simultaneously, they insist.”






Share this on WhatsApp