The Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) Africa, says the presidential candidate of Peoples’ Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar will emerged victorious in the February 16 presidential election.

Recall that the same magazine had predicted in 2015 the victory of Muhammadu Buhari over then-incumbent Goodluck Jonathan, stating that Buhari was “the least awful choice,” which would be chosen “with a heavy heart”.

The research unit of London-based The Economist Magazine had said in 2018 that the PDP will win the 2019 election.

In a report by the magazine, it said the margin of victory is getting narrower as the election approaches, insisting that Atiku and his political party will win the historic election.

Similarly in a tweeter message, the EIU said Abubakar is hard-pressed to convince voters that he is a clean politician, having been on the receiving end of numerous graft allegations in the past.

“We retain out forecast for #Abubakar to win, but expected margin of victory is narrowing as the poll approaches.”

“Abubakar’s pledge is to reinvigorate the economy with pro-market reforms. Both candidates are from the northern Nigeria, where Buhari’s support base lies, presaging a fierce contest there,” EIU had said.

“With the vote likely to be split in the North, Abubakar will find it easier to garner support from the country’s south, which has traditionally been a safe haven for the PDP.

“This gives Abubakar an edge, as does popular frustration over the rise in joblessness and poverty (two of the biggest voter concerns) on Mr. Buhari’s watch, as well as growing insecurity in central Nigeria.”

Meanwhile, Lai Mohammed, Minister for information and culture, had said The Economist’s prediction was nothing but fake news.

“We have all read that the intelligence unit of The Economist said the PDP will defeat the ruling APC in 2019,” he had said.

“We have also read that the international financial institution HSBC said Nigeria’s economic development will be stunted if President Buhari gets a second term

“Let me state clearly that these reports are based on fake premises and, therefore, qualify as fake news. It is a psychological warfare by those who have been badly hit by our policies.”




			
			Post Views: 
			152