By Olanrewaju Adesanya
Concerned youths in Surulere II constituency have urged the leadership of the Lagos State All Progressive Congress (APC) and Governor Babajide Sanwoolu to consider capable constituents from their area in the appointment of commissioners and special advisers.
The youth leader Mr. Adeyemi Akanni said the emergence of Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila as speaker of the House of Representatives was a testimony that Surulere constituency impacted a lot in the polity.
He thanked the national leader of the party Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for providing direction for the party, noting that Surulere turned out to vote enmass in the last election.
Adeyemi made an appeal to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to complement the efforts of Surulere constituents by appointing commissioners from the area.
” The emergence of Rt. Hon Femi Gbajabiamila as Speaker of House of Representatives is a plus to Surulere constituency, Lagos state , Southwest and Nigeria at large .
“Surelere constituency 2 deserve commissioners, that will bring the impact of our amiable governor to us, instead of running to Speaker but constituency commissioner.
” We deserve better place in the cabinet so as to feel the impact of governance of our great party and leader. We are not asking for much and we know we are speaking the heart of the entire youth in our party in Surulere.
Akanni said the constituency parades loyal party men among whom is Hon. Akeem Bamgbala whose dedication to the betterment of the party is tremendous.
He stress that Surulere youth would continue to support the party and Sanwo-Olu in its determination to ensure Lagos remains the barometer for the measurement of good governance in the county.
“We want the party and governor to look toward men of reputable character. We want people that have served the party with determination both at the local government and state levels.
We see Hon Akeem Bamgbala is this light and the choice we look for in Surulere Constituency 2 also , Hon. Aliu kazeem and Hon.Arole fancy are also people with high pedigree that can stir up politics in our constituency

			
			Post Views: 
			157