The Ooni of Ife, His Royal Majesty, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, is in sharp disagreement with the All Progressives Congress (APC) national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, over the killers of Funke Olakunrin, daughter of the Afenifere leader, Chief Reuben Fasoranti, along Akure – Ore road last Friday.
The APC national leader, Tinubu, had while on condolence visit to Chief Fasoranti exonerated the Fulani herdsmen from the murder of Funke.
Tinubu was said to have argued that the country has been having crisis of insecurity for many years. The APC national leader in a media interaction during the condolence visit to Fasoranti had reportedly declared: “I am extremely concerned about security. I don’t want the stigma. I can go through the history of kidnapping in Nigeria and we know how and where it all started. There are a lot of copycats.
“How many years ago have we faced insecurity in the country and cases of kidnapping? Is Evans too, who was arrested and made disclosures, also a herdsman? I don’t want to be political, but I will ask where are the cows?”
However, National Daily learned that at a thanksgiving service for Hon. Olufemi Bamisile, member of the House of Representatives, in Kota Ekiti, Ekiti State, the Ooni of Ife, His Royal Majesty, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, had admonished that the southwest has taken enough of herdsmen killing, declaring that the time has come for the Yoruba nation to unite and defend its territory against the killer herdsmen.
The Ooni was cited to have declared,  “I call on all the people of the Yoruba race at this time to be united. The time has come to end this killing. This killing must end. Enough is enough!”
The Ooni of Ife is in agreement with the Aare Ona Kankanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adams, that the murder of Funke is “one death too many”. The Aare had warned that the Yoruba nation has the capacity to defend its territory. Gani Adams had further cautioned that he is capable of rolling out one million people for war to defend Yoruba land.
After the murder of Funke, Gani Adams had further declared that no one should blame them when they go on reprisal attack against the killer herdsmen.
 










			
			Post Views: 
			1,687