The Executive Vice Chairman of Ikorodu Local Government Area Hon. Princess Flashade Olabanji – Oba have implored Nigerian women to get involve actively in politics and take charge of the society and the environment they live.
Princess Folashade who is also the National Deputy Chairman, Association of Local Government Vice Chairmen of Nigeria spoke today while fielding questions from journalists during the EKO Youth submit with the theme “Building a 21st century Lagos” organized by National Union of Lagos State Students Lagos State University Chapter.
According to her everybody should harness their potentials because politics is about the people which is one of the major reason she came to share her experience before the students who are the future leaders of tomorrow. “Lets empower ourselves in unity, need more positive people in politics all of us should get involve, be prepare to take charge by seeing beyond now”
The female politician who also make her birthday today advice Nigerians not to be scared in joining politics as participation is the major way to contribute to the development of the nation.
She advised the youths to get a mentor, adding that if you are good material someone will like to invest in that person.
She further urged the students to develop positive attitude because they are the future leaders. “Do things to edify your spirit be the very best” she said.
As the Executive Vice Chairman of Ikorodu Local Government Area  Lagos, she thank the federal government and Lagos State government for responding positively to the security challenges of Ikorodu and its environs. She noted that very soon Ikorodu will become a place to be sought after and loved by all.
Also speaking at the forum a tradition ruler from Ikorodu Oba Abiola Kosoko urged the students at the gathering to redefined themselves individually in order to build a better Lagos State.
Speaking on behalf of the student Ashade Abdulbasit Ademurara president National Union of Lagos State students Lagos State chapter and its general secretary Prince Soyiga Samuel Adeshina both jointly call on the Lagos State Governor Babajide San-wolu to assist the indigenes of Lagos State students to pay their outstanding two years bursary allowance which the past Governor Akinwunmi Ambode failed to pay before leaving office.
The student body threatened that failure to pay may force the students to embark on a street protest which may not augur well with the new administration

			
			Post Views: 
			95