The national leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, may have begun a process of rebuilding the ruling APC in the southwest towards laying solid foundation for the launch of his 2023 presidential project. National Daily learned that the former Lagos State Governor recruited some APC leaders in the southwest who include three former governors – Chief Bisi Akande, Chief Segun Osoba and Chief Niyi Adebayo to commence negotiations and arbitration to reconcile internal party conflicts in southwest APC.




Accordingly, the APC national, Tinubu, on Wednesday led Bisi Akande, Segun Osoba and Niyi Adebayo and other APC leaders to resolve the internal conflicts among party members which has been threatening the second term ticket of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu in Ondo State.
Tinubu had arrived Akure on Tuesday into a colourful welcome ceremony for the reconciliation meeting.
He subsequently, led Akande, Osoba, Adebayo and other party members from the southwest into the meeting APC leaders in Ondo State.
After the meeting, Tinubu had set the peaceful agreement ball rolling with his reconciliation with Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, both of who have been having severed relationships since the governorship election that brought Akeredolu to power under the leadership of former APC national chairman, Chief John Oyegun.
National Dailylearned that an elated Tinubu after the meeting acknowledged in a media interaction that party members in the conflicts agreed to resolve all differences using home grown approach. The meeting behind closed door was said to have lasted three hours.
The APC national leader was said to have maintained that the Ondo APC leaders will adopt conflict resolution mechanism which is part of politics to smoothen all rough edges.
Akande, Osoba and Adeniyi were said to have remarked that the meeting was to promote the interest of the APC in the region and strategize for victory in future elections. They were said to have added that APC leaders in Ondo would extend the reconciliation from the ward, local government to the state level.









			
			Post Views: 
			1,026