Ediale Kingsley makes a note of 12 points from all the information available on the net:

1. Neymar is desperate to leave a league that has been termed the ‘farmers league’.

2. Cristiano Ronaldo, Leo Messi and Pep Guardiola are the most important influencers in the bid to get Neymar. And this is why Barca, ManCity and Juve are the most likely destination.

3. Neymar in Manchester City means instant (and automatic) extended dominance of the EPL. It will be the same situation for Barca’s La Liga and Juve’s Serie-A.

3. Neymar should go to Barca because of the throne waiting for him there. He would eventually be crowned King someday soon after Messi. I say 4 or 5 years later.

4. Neymar should go to Juve more because of the Sarri Ball philosophy than Cristiano Ronaldo. But Juve seems to have spent enough already. I don’t think they can still afford him.

6. Neymar should go to ManCity to fulfil the dream of world dominance. That which wasn’t possible in Ligue 1 can be achieved in the EPL.
If City sells Leroy Sane to Bayern Munich. They can add up money and purchase Neymar from PSG. However, City would be very careful in their spending since they are already under the watch list of the Financial Fair Play authorities.

7. Barca having Neymar would help the club to match the Real Madrid assembly of stars. Then Barca fans can go ahead and sleep with both eyes closed.

8. It’s quite difficult to get the Neymar deal closed. Only PSG can make the matter any lighter. Is there a player PSG have interest in? The answer is Paulo Dybala.

9. The deal is PSG want to buy Paulo Dybala for cheap as a replacement for Neymar. But Juve knowing that the Neymar deal is around the corner will try to bargain for more money. PSG is patient. Dybala is waiting.

10. And that’s the circle of things at the moment: Barca dragging feet to drop the full cash but stylishly sealing a verbal agreement with Neymar not to agree any other club’s deal.

11. They hope they can pay less. Remember it was this same Neymar purchase that sacked the former Barca President – Sandro Rosell.

12. At the other hand, Barca will hope to get David Alaba from Bayern Munich as alternative, if the Neymar deal doesn’t pull through. Alaba is waiting. Bayern is waiting. It’s a waiting game.


According to Goal, Barcelona want to sign Neymar from PSG this transfer window, despite already landing Antoine Griezmann from Atletico Madrid.

The La Liga giants have made winning the Champions League their No 1 goal for next season, with the Catalan giants yet to scoop the prize since beating Juventus in the 2015 final.


Barcelona sold Neymar to PSG two years ago after the Ligue 1 titans triggered the player’s huge £200million release clause.

However, the Brazil international has come to regret his decision to leave the Nou Camp behind.

And reports have suggested he has failed to take to living in Paris in the same way he did when he moved to Barcelona from Santos in 2013.

Now, though, French outlet CNews claim that PSG have set a deadline for Barca to complete a transfer.

The report says that PSG chief Al-Khelaifi is concerned that talk over Neymar will disrupt their preparations for the new season.

Barcelona have until August 31 to get a deal for their former No 11 over the line.





			
			Post Views: 
			245