Singer TY Bello too was raped—that is the trending news now.
She didn’t name and shame the bastard that did it.
But it’s not likely the predator was an MOG, like that of Busola Dakolo who recently blew up the lid on her 19-year-old rape agony.
Somehow, a bevy of female celebs are now speaking up in what looks like a mock attempt of the US #Me Too# upheaval that took down powerful  he-men like Bill Cosby and others recently.
Bello broke her news on Instagram Tuesday.
The photographer gave no 5Ws and H of the abuse—just a tortuous emotional release of sexual violation she said happened when she was younger—30 years ago.
She also narrated how God rescued her years after.
“I remember how the silence I had to keep after the abuse slowly killed me. I also remember the relief I found in my relationship with God so early.
“That really was my rescue ..yet for decades I could never find my voice on the matter .. I was still afraid ..Mostly because I felt it may have been the fault of my seven-year-old self .. somehow… Fast forward .. almost thirty years later ..I knew better .. and was ‘big’ enough..
“I understood the importance of stepping up when it was time to share my story .. and ..I did in my @kemiadetiba ‘s #kingwomen interview .. it surprised me, however, how hard it was to talk about sexual abuse after so many years .. but it was such a relief ..But soon after came the resistance.
“In sharing ..I faintly began tasting the shame again .. that same feeling of naked ‘dirtiness ‘’ I had as a child .. it hadn’t completely gone away. It also became clear .. that real stories of sexual abuse still sounded like NOVELTY.. I saw headline after headline .. even in broken English .. this my ‘confession ‘.that ‘ Dem ‘SPOIL ‘ me when I be small pikin’..
“It didn’t feel good that it was so ‘sensational’ as I was aware of how massive a plague this was ..WE CLEARLY ARE NOT TALKING ENOUGH ..too many children sexually abused .. too many sex crimes ..especially now .. right under our noses.
“I had to push past the inner conflict that talking about it was ‘unnecessary’ … it was too long ago ..too ‘Oyinboish ‘to discuss publicly .. ‘. ‘Then of course ..that talking about it now would make it seem like my family failed me as a child .. but they didn’t .. and could never have known .. I had mastered SILENCE !they were victims too.
“Every abuse story is different but it is SHAME that makes them complicated..
“Sadly, the shame hardly lies with the perpetrators .. So I’ve learnt that it’s time to nail shame right where it belongs ..Far away from the wronged .. Bringing them instead to healing, justice and freedom.
“We must teach every child the power of their voices, Apparently, we must teach adults too … and more importantly, we must learn to listen .. understand and know that Sex is not a dirty word .. but DENIAL is ..” she wrote.

			
			Post Views: 
			85