In what seems to be a total turnaround from its earlier stand, the Islamic Movement of Nigeria, IMN, on Wednesday says it has temporarily suspended the regular street protest calling for the release of their leader, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky from detention.



IMN explained that the suspension of its street protests was to “allow for some new openings into the resolution of the problems, especially the court case instituted by our lawyers on the proscription order made by the federal government this week.”

However, the group’s President of Media Forum, Ibrahim Musa expressed hope that the matter surrounding the detention of El-Zakzaky would be resolved amicably.

In a statement signed by Musa, the step was taken in good faith and out of respect for some eminent people and groups, whose input in the resolution of the problems appears genuine

“If at all any protests occur anywhere in the country, it might be this notice hasn’t reached those in the field or this message is misunderstood or it is some security agents who are mischievously behind it as they have been doing in an attempt to smear our image and be seen as unruly people rather than as victims of savage oppression since 2015.

“The Islamic Movement wishes to thank both national and international civil rights activists and organizations who have been busy demanding the protection of our fundamental human rights as enshrined in the constitution.

“We also thank the press, both national and international, and the social media activists for the full coverage of our activities throughout the struggle for justice.

“We are committed to exploring the new openings we have seen in resolving this protracted issue. We, therefore, reiterate our demand that our leader, his wife and several others in detention be given their freedom denied to them since 2015.”


Recall that the Federal Government had last week obtained a court order to proscribe the Shi’ites group.

An Abuja Federal High Court had on Friday ordered the proscription of IMN, following their clashes with security operatives.

The Justice Nkeonye Maha-led court designated the activities of IMN organisation in any part of Nigeria “as acts of terrorism and illegality.”

Against this backdrop, the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu had re-affirmed IMN’s proscription just yesterday.


			
			Post Views: 
			90