The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt Gen Tukur Buratai on Saturday gave a commendation award with N2m to a-104-year old Private Amuda Aluko (retd), who served in the World War 11.

Also honoured included 28 other soldiers who fought in the Nigerian Civil War between 1967 – 1970, as well as three Legionnaires. Besides, 18 serving officers of the Nigerian Army also got commendation medals for their innovations, gallantry and bravery at tackling the menace of Boko Haram insurgents.

Giving his remarks after a colourful parade that marked the end of a week-long Nigerian Army Day  Celebration (NADCEL) 2019 at the Ikeja Cantonment Parade Ground, Lagos, Buratai reinstated the determination of the Nigerian Army to remain resolute and rootless against the insurgents and other criminal elements that have vowed to make the country ungovernable.

He acknowledged the fact that the country is facing numerous security challenges which has led to the army’s involvement at conducting various operations across the country to rout the terrorists and other criminal gangs in “order to restore sanity to the country.”

Buratai said, “The Nigerian Army has introduced numerous non-kinetic or the soft power approach aimed at winning the hearts and minds of the citizens. Some of these interventions are aimed at providing the much needed security for the people who are engaged in one form of business and to enable our farmers to return to their farms.”

The Special Guest of Honour, the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Gen Mohammadu Buhari, who was represented by the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osibajo, expressed his confidence that the NA has the capacity and capability to defend its territorial integrity of the country.

He explained that the onions lies on the Federal Government to do the needful, noting that  they would faithfully discharge its obligation  to make available the moral and financial support to the army to accomplish its objectives.

While reiterating its determination to fight the insurgents, he remarked that “we would ensure our land is rid of insurgency and deal with other criminalities. We would not relent until we bring back all the adopted girls in Chibok and Dapchi especially Leah Sharibu and reunite them with their families.

“The terrorists are motivated by satanic desire. Therefore, the challenge for us is to recognize these extremism and challenge them” with a view to destroying “these evils among us,” Osibajo emphasized.

The Vice President warned that nobody would be allowed to commit evil and escape noting that it is was up to the judicial system to ensure justice was served.

While preaching peace and tolerance, Prof Osibajo noted that the government was building on the foundation of last four years to ensure a harmonious coexistence among the citizenry.

The colourful parade also witness the launching and unveiling of light armoured vehicles built by DICON as well as armoured tanks by Proforce.

The parade was attended by the former Head of State, Gen Yakubu Gowon, former service chiefs, members of the Diplomatic Corps, retired senior officers and the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Abayomi Olonisakin and Chief of Air Staff and a representative of the Chief of Naval Staff.

			
			Post Views: 
			100