The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday chided President Muhammadu Buhari and the ruling All progressives Congress (APC) over the spate of violence in Nigeria. The party lamented the continuous killing of Nigerians in avoidable bloody clashes in various parts of the country, particularly, the preventable skirmishes between the police and protesters in Abuja on Monday.
The PDP in a statement in Abuja by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, declared that the party “is heartbroken that the misrule of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration has gradually turned various parts of our country, including the nation’s capital, into arenas of violence and bloodletting.
“Our party is, particularly, saddened by the death of an innocent National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member, attached to the Channels TV, 23 years old Mr. Precious Owolabi, who was shot during the Monday bloody clash between the police and protesters in Abuja.
“Indeed, our hearts reach out to his family at this moment of grief.”
The PDP decried that the killing of Owolabi, as well as the avoidable deaths of other compatriots, including a Deputy Commissioner of Police, is indeed another sad commentary on the irreplaceable losses and anguish families in Nigeria have continued to bear under the APC.
The PDP, therefore, declared further that President Buhari has not demonstrated enough capacity and commitment to effectively manage the country’s affairs and put measures in place to ensure a stable, united, equitable and secured Nigeria.
The PDP maintained that the APC has also shown that it is completely unpatriotic and only out to destabilize the country for its selfish reasons.
PDP, therefore, called on Nigerians of good faith to explore necessary avenues available in a democracy and the 1999 Constitution (as amended) to raise a voice of lamentation on the Online state of the nation under the misrule of the APC.
“Certainly, no nation can thrive under an atmosphere of persistent violence, bloodletting and siege mentality on the citizenry,” the party remarked.
The PDP contended that had President Buhari, indeed, given the littlest consideration to the continuous wise counsel by well-meaning Nigerian leaders, including former presidents, as well as international bodies, the security challenges confronting the country would have been reduced to the barest minimum.
The PDP, therefore, admonished President Buhari to listen to the voice of reason, arise and take immediate steps that would put to an end the violence ravaging the country.
PDP also advocated that APC must end all its manifest anti-people tendencies, noxious body language and all acts that promote impunity and lawlessness in the land.
The PDP, therefore, called on the National Assembly, as true representatives of the people, to immediately rise to the occasion by taking urgent legislative steps to unravel how the Monday protest led to the death of yet to be ascertained number of Nigerians.







			
			Post Views: 
			108