The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Abayomi Olonisakin on Monday called on patriotic Nigerian citizens to join hands in the fight  to oblitrate terrorists and other forms of criminal acts that have infested the country like a behemoth.

Speaking at the opening ceremony of the Combat Support Arms Training (COSAT) Week 2019, as part of the events marking the Nigerian Army Day Celebration (NADCEL), said  their collaborative efforts was necessary because every Nigerian has a right to a safe and secured environment.

The event held at the Headquarters, Nigerian Army Ordnance Corps Auditorium,  Abalti Barracks in Ojuelegba, Lagos.

Gen Oloniskin noted that combating insecurity in the country was a continuous process that requires a lot of sacrifices, to which the Nigerian Army and other security agencies are  committed to.

He added that COSAT 2019 would further enhance personnel skills to deal with the security challenges in the country.

He explained, “We are better positioned to totally end the insurgency in the North East (NE), and other criminal activities across the Nation. This can only be achieved through synergy and the cooperation of all the Services, security agencies as well as other stakeholders.

“The right to live in a peaceful, safe and secure environment is an inalienable right of every citizen of this country. Therefore, there is an urgent need for all Nigerian citizens, in the spirit of patriotism, to contribute to the efforts of combating the menace of insecurity in the society.

“Our efforts at combating insecurity in our dear nation is a continuous engagement that requires a lot of sacrifice and to which we are ultimately committed.”

The theme of the lecture: “Enhancing the Efficiency of the Combat Support Arms in Tackling Contemporary Security Challenges, Gen Olonisakin added, “The NA has continued to demonstrate its resolve to secure the territorial integrity of our country from both internal and external threats.

“The combat support arms, consisting of the Artillery, Engineers, Signals and Intelligence will always have a role to play in support of the combat arms of NA towards achieving this mandate.

“The COSAT Week is therefore an avenue to boost professionalism as participants brainstorm and strategize to better support the combat arms in combating emerging security challenges in Nigeria.

“Our contemporary security challenges are characterised by non-state actors who exhibit deep intolerance for peaceful coexistence with other members of the society based on narrow ideologies, radicalism and in some instances outright criminal intents. These individuals and groups have resorted to attacking innocent citizens, creating an atmosphere of fear and panic through acts of terror as well as insurgent activities against Nigeria’s territorial integrity.”

Earlier in his remark, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lt Gen. Tukur Buratai said the security challenges facing the country today requires more agility, flexibility, ingenuity and an uncanny ability to think outside the box.

Explaining, he said NADCEL 2019 which marks the 156th year of existence of the Nigerian Army is a constant reminder of the sacrifice made by troops most of whom laid down their lives to ensure the nation remained united.

“We have not only consolidated on the gains established in the fight against insurgency in the NE but have progressed to the stabilization phase where all efforts are geared towards ensuring displaced persons return to their traditional homes.

“We will continue to do everything possible in our resolve to build a formidable army supported by a well trained and equipped combat support arms. I sincerely commend the efforts of the combat support arms in the ongoing counter insurgency operation in the North East (NE) where the artillery has effectively acquired, located and engaged ground targets while the air defence continue to prevent hostile aerial interference with our land operations.

“The engineers have equally assisted the army to live, move and fight especially in the areas of Counter Improvised Explosive Device (CIED) and force protection. Additionally, the Signals Corps has provided communications and electronic warfare support for effective command and control during our operations while the Nigerian Army Intelligence Corp has assisted in producing actionable intelligence for ongoing operations around the country.

“The fast changing nature of modern battlefield and the availability of technological resources to adversarial forces call for both critical and creative thinking to multiply force and do much with the little available,,” Buratai added.

In attendance were the General Officer Commanding, 81 Division, Maj Gen Musa Yusuf and several other GOCs of Division  of the Nigeria  Army, naval and airforce senior officers and a representatives of the Chief of Naval and Air Staff, and




Download all attachments as a zip file


			
			Post Views: 
			101