The open letter former President Olusegun Obasanjo wrote to President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday has continued to generate disquiets across the country while some declared support for the former president.
Particularly, northern leaders and groups appeared to be discontented with the Obasanjo letter to President Buhari on the rising insecurity in Nigeria and the plausible consequences.
National Daily learned that the Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, a Fulani socio-cultural organisation in Nigeria, expressed strong dissatisfaction with the former president, and demanded President Buhari to immediately arrest former President Obasanjo over the open letter.
National Daily further learned that the Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, in an explanation by the national secretary, Alhassan Saleh, was of the view that the latter does not mean well for Nigeria’s progress, therefore, demanding President Buhari to immediately arrest Obasanjo.  The Fulani group has persistently protested the association of Fulani with crimes in the country.
Reports cited Saleh to have declared: “The fact that there is insecurity, I don’t think the Fulani are responsible for it. “The narrative that we are responsible for the insecurity is even the problem we have with the Nigerian State.
“When any crime happens, even before there is an investigation, people rush to the press and start accusing Fulani herdsmen.
“Herdsmen are supposed to be carrying herds of cows but if somebody is a criminal or an armed robber, he should be treated as such.”
Saleh was said to have stated that if Obasanjo with his leadership experience, local and international network and contacts, has information on the national security, he should be made to volunteer it. He protested that Obasanjo doesn’t mean well for Nigeria.
Saleh, therefore, declared further:  “The earlier they get him arrested and dealt with, according to the laws of the land, the better.
“We just elected a new government; we have a National Assembly that was just inaugurated. Nobody needs any conference, except they are pushing for something else.”
The Myetti Allah scribe insisted that the Fulani nation is only asking for space to graze their cattle and nothing more; casting aspersion on those opposing the spread of Fulani herdsmen with their cattle across the length and breadth of Nigeria.
“We are just waiting and watching carefully because we are not demanding too much from the Nigerian State.
“All we are saying is give us space to graze our animals. That is not difficult,” Saleh had insisted.










			
			Post Views: 
			353