By Esther Egbe

The Nigeria Women Football League is considered as one of the most competitive women football leagues in the world. It is the only league where you just can’t take your opponent lightly whether it’s a small team with no big guns, National Daily learnt.

The transfer window is over for the Nigeria Women Premier League and almost every team has added some fuel to their engine in the transfer process.

After the transfer window teams are looking fresh and confident. Some top clubs like Delta Queens, Ibom Angels, Confluence Queens will start the is season under a new coach.

The 2019 season of the NWPL will start on the 17th of July and like every year football fans are fueled up after the long break from football.

National Daily gathered that this five clubs are the real deal  in the Nigeria Women Premier League after the end of the transfer window:


*DELTA QUEENS*

A force to reckon with in the Nigeria Women Premier League, Delta Queens are one of the most successful teams in the league with 5 Federation Cup title and 4 league tittles.

The ‘Okowa Ladies’ narrowly missed out at the 2018 Super 4 held in Lagos, the club from ‘The big heart of the nation’ is set to bounce back with their new manager George Emenetie who is very experienced and with his tactics praised widely all over after his previously successful spell with the “Okowa Ladies” and most recently leading them to the 2019 semi final of the AITEO Cup, with exciting players like Maryann Ezeanagu, Maryann Ohadiwe, Rose Ekong, Oghenebrume Ikhekua. It will be interesting to see how Emenetie and Delta Queens will fare when the league resumes on the 17th of July.

ALSO READ: Owumi rolls out plans for next season as Rangers retain 22 Players
  *SUNSHINE QUEENS*

Sunshine Queens have never won the Premier League in their fourteen years of existence but they are always a team with alot of potentials and have gained more recognition under former Super Falcons player Wemimo Matthew.

A team with great potentials, the ‘Owena Mermaids’ finished third last season and the 2019 NWPL season might be the perfect time for the South West club to achieve the long awaited glory, with young players like Rofiat Imran, Yemisi Samuel, Patricia Innocent, Zainab Olopade, no doubt Sunshine Queens are one of the favourite to spring out surprises this season.

*NASARAWA AMAZONS*

Nasarawa Amazons last won the Nigeria Women Premier League in 2017 and narrowly missed out to Bayelsa Queens last season. Under Christopher Danjuma, the ‘Solid Babes’ have been highly competitive and have consistently been one of the best teams in the league.

Even after the exit of top scorer, Anam Imo, players like Amarachi Okoronkwo, Chinyere Igboamalu, Mariam Ibrahim, Saiki Mary and others have all lived up to expectations. The solid babes are already in the final of the 2019 AITEO Cup and will be looking forward to replicate their AITEO Cup form when the league resumes on the 17th of July.

*RIVERS ANGELS*

Rivers Angels last won the Premier league three years ago and are hungry for success more than ever.

The second most successful team in the history of the NWPL behind Pelican Stars of Calabar. The ‘Jewels of Rivers’ are surely top contenders this season and have brought in some important players to help them win the league again for the first time in three years. Rivers Angels are in the Group A of the 2019 NWPL alongside Delta Queens, FC Robo and Osun Babes and are favourites to qualify for the Super 4 from the group.

*BAYELSA QUEENS*

Bayelsa Queens are the defending champions of the Nigeria Women Premier League and would want to defend their title at the Super 4 later this year.

Moses Aduku has beefed up his squad with the likes of Anjor Mary, Celine Ottah, Rafiat Sule and others ahead of the difficult task they are to face when the league resumes. The ‘Restoration Girls’ are in a very difficult group alongside Nasarawa Amazons and Sunshine Queens.



			
			Post Views: 
			80