Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), has commended Airtel Nigeria, for operating on an innovative customer service programme to involve, delight and receive feedback from telecommunications consumers.
Prof. Umar Danbatta, executive vice chairman, NCC who spoke during the Airtel Customer Forum, in Abuja, said he was pleased that Airtel Nigeria is complementing the NCC’s consumer outreach initiative by organizing strategic consumer fora to engage consumers, resolve their queries, obtain vital feedback and also proactively improve customer experience.
The NCC who was represented by  Mohammed.C. Babajika, director, Policy and Competition, NCC, said that “The NCC commends Airtel Nigeria for initiating the Airtel Customer forum. It is, indeed, good innovation and we urge Airtel to take the platform to more locations including remote areas across the country. We also encourage Airtel to continue to roll out more services, including 5G.”
 
Also speaking at the event, Segun Ogunsanya, chief executive officer and managing director of Airtel Nigeria, who was represented by Emeka Oparah, director, Corporate Communications & CSR, said Airtel is passionate about improving the service experience of all its customers.
 
“For all of us at Airtel Nigeria, this evening is very special for several reasons. First, it defines our very essence as a customer-centric organization – customer-centricity is embedded in our DNA. At Airtel, we are intensely interested in partnering with all our esteemed customers and also helping them realize and fulfil your dreams and aspirations.
 
“We have themed this event, ‘It’s All About You,’ because we understand that our customers are the reason why we are in business. We also take seriously our singular mandate of exceeding the expectation of our customers. We are committed to serving our customers better and we will stop at nothing in providing relevant, innovative and customized services as well as a bouquet of value offerings that will empower them to succeed in their professional and personal lives.”
 
Veronica Onoja, director, Customer Experience, Airtel Nigeria, assured the audience that Airtel values feedback and it will continue to create more channels to obtain feedback from its key stakeholders.
 
The highlight of the event was the feedback session, which afforded all the customers an opportunity to share their recommendations and suggestions as well as express grievances.
 
The event was attended by several top personalities including Former Minister of Information and Communications, Frank Nweke Jnr.; Deputy Senate Leader, Senator Ajayi Borofice and the Director-General, National Regulatory Lottery Commission (NLRC), Mr Lanre Gbajabiamila, among several others.








			
			Post Views: 
			97