A former ally of President Muhammadu Buhari, Buba Galadima, on Monday said he decided to dump the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate for Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 elections because of Buhari’s incompetence.

 
While appearing before the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal as the first witness for the PDP and its presidential candidate, Galadima described Buhari as a failure and said he and his group members in Reformed All Progressives Congress (R-APC) entered into a memorandum of understanding with the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) to produce “God-fearing, good and educated leader.”
 
He refuted the allegation that the reason he worked against Buhari in the 2019 election was because he was not given any appointment.
 
Galadima had supported Buhari in 2003, 2007, 2011 and 2015 when Buhari eventually emerged as President.
 
At the Tribunal on Monday, the leading lawyer for the APC, Wole Olanipekun, had told Galadima, “You fell out with the 2nd respondent (Buhari) because he did not make you a minister in 2015.”
 
In his response Galadima said, “No. You should know that I fought all the previous governments since 1999 because of injustice.
 
“We made good promises to Nigerians, including justice, inclusiveness, and to secure the country, which he (Buhari) has failed to do. It has always being part of my characteristics to fight injustice.”
 
When he was cross-examined by APC’s lawyer, Lateef Fagbemi (SAN), he explained that he was aware that there was no registered party called the Reformed APC, but insisted he was the chairman of the group.
 
Galadima, who was a spokesman for the Atiku Campaign Organisation, meanwhile maintained he remains a member of the APC because he had “not been sacked”.
 
He said, “I’m still a member of APC. I have not been sacked. We are in court. I don’t want to be subjudice.
 
“I’m not a member of PDP, but we have a memorandum of understanding with the PDP to produce God-fearing, good and educated leader.”


			
			Post Views: 
			171