As Police begins investigation






The Nigeria Police has commenced investigation ofSenator Elisha Abbo over assault of a shop attendant in Abuja. Accordingly, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has ordered the arrest of Senator Abbo and his orderly by an investigative team set up by the Force Headquarters, Abuja.National Daily learned that the team has already commenced action.
The Federal Capital Territory Police Command was said to be leading the investigation into the assault of a sales girl Senator Abbo in Abuja which went viral on the social media on Tuesday.
National Daily learned that the assault incident was recorded by the Close Circuit Television (CCTV), installed in the shop, from where the video was abstracted and went viral on the social media.
The Police were said to have traced the sex-toy shop where the assault took place in the course of investigation.
The Police are also perfecting the process of the arrest of the senator and his Police Orderly for interrogation..
The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command was said to have made contact with the victim who had exposed the assault Tuesday after the incident had happened some days back. She was, however, told to report back on Wednesday for interview.
National Daily gathered that the Public Relations Officer, FCT Command, Anjugurl Manzah, acknowledged the incident, saying:  “we are monitoring the situation and we have commenced the process of investigation.
“What the Commissioner of Police has actual done is that the complainant has been asked to do a formal complain to the Command for discreet investigation. The Command has urged the complainant to come forward, but I can assure you that the incident did not happen on Tuesday.
“I cannot establish the date when it happened but the command has made it clear that we want a formal complaint on the matter so that we can commence action.
“We cannot just commence work based on what we see on the social media; you need something, you need a document to work with. For now, we have not received a formal complaint from the complainant.”
 
 










			
			Post Views: 
			340