By Esther Egbe

After leading Enyimba Football Club to a record eighth Nigeria Professional Football League title, technical adviser Usman Abd’Allah has described the 2018/19 season as one in which the two-time African Champions achieved all of its goals, National Daily learnt.

The People’s Elephant, earlier in the month, put up a class act to win four of five matches at the NPFL Championship Playoffs, including a compelling 3-0 trashing of Akwa United in their last match of the tournament.

The performance helped Abd’Allah’s side seal the NPFL crown and claim a place in next season’s CAF Champions League.

The club’s hopes of a domestic double were, however, dashed by a 2-3 loss to Smart City FC in the Aiteo Cup round of 32, but Abd’Allah has focused on the positives, insisting that the team reached all targets laid out for the season.

“It could have been nice to get the double this year, but all the same the most important thing is that we won the league,” the gaffer told National Daily.

“We are champions for the eighth time, more than any other club in Nigeria.
And we’re back in the continental, the top slot playing  champions league next year.

ALSO READ: Enyimba close in eighth league title with win against IUFC

“Most important thing was to assemble a team that will go for continental next year, which we did and displayed that kind of team in the super six, even though there is a little bit of few places we have to strengthen; but ninety percent of the team is okay.

“I think we have a better chance of doing well in the continental with this team, with a little bit of addition here and there.

“We wanted to get back to continental, which we did; and top up with a trophy, which we did. So if we had three goals to achieve this year I think hundred percent we got what we wanted and we are happy with that.”

He  said the squad is currently on a break, with preparation for the new season set to commence in the coming weeks, it was a perfect season for us.

			
			Post Views: 
			43