The competition ably sponsored by Kessington Adebutu Foundation (KAF) aims at further cementing the unity amongst youths and unearthing the hidden talents in the state was graced by loving football fans, stakeholders, captains of industries, friends, family members and the leading football supporters club in the country, National Daily learnt.


Nigeria Eagles Supporters Club* led by their resilient and versatile National Chairperson, Ouwakemi Ogunfuwa who says the major aims of the tournament was to discover talented footballers that would go on to feature for the next class of generation of stars for the National Teams.

The grand finale was a beehive of entertainment as Nigeria Eagles Supporters Club provided what could be said to be an electrifying performance with rendition of their beautiful songs to the admiration of hundreds of soccer fans and invited dignitaries at the event

The final match ended in a barren draw at regulation time with both teams missing several scoring chances and goalkeepers making gallant saves.

The competition produced some excellent performances from teams and breathtaking football artistry with individual brilliance from players to the excitement of the organizers. Prizes such as Most Valuable Player (MVP), Best Goalkeeper award, Medals, cash prizes and trophies were presented to the outstanding teams.

ALSO READ: Super Eagles will go all out for their games-Ighalo

The competition, according to the Chairperson Nigeria Eagles Supporters Club, Oluwakemi Ogunfuwa is an opportunity for young and upcoming generation of players to be discovered and nurtured to stardom.

  ” This is a very good opportunity for youths who want to take football as a career to showcase their talents, be and propelled to stardom. The foundation is keen to helping the outstanding ones amongst them actualise their dreams”.

Oluwakemi thereafter thanked the organizers, Kessignton Adebukola Adebutu Foundation (KAF) for the opportunity given to the participants to showcase their talents, reducing vices and thereby becoming useful to themselves, societies and the nation at large. NESC Boss concluded.

The competition was supported by Flourmills courtesy National Chairperson, Nigeria Eagles Supporters Club, Miss Kemi Ogunfuwa.


			
			Post Views: 
			100