Nigeria still spends billions of naira on salt importation, despite the huge salt deposits in some parts of the country. In Ebonyi State, a land flowing with abundant and grossly untapped brine, small scale producers are making a pinch of salt at a time. Chinwe Agbeze, writes.
Ebonyi State, Southeastern Nigeria is home to Okposi and Uburu, two salt producing towns in Ohaozara Local Government Area of the State.
During the Nigerian civil war, the enormous salt in both towns, was said to have attracted buyers from all parts of the country, to Odenigbo Okposi market, one of the famous markets at that time.
The rich salt deposits in Okposi and Uburu Lakes, earned the state the slogan, “The salt of the nation.”
The production process
It was a bright Wednesday morning as 80-year-old Florence Eberike, makes her way to Mmahiezi Salt Lake, to fetch some brine for salt production.
‘Mmahiezi’ which means ‘salt water’ in the local parlance, is located 62kilometres from Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State Capital. The Salt Lake, is situated in Okwu community in Okposi town, and sits on about 1-hectare of land enclosed by trees. Few metres from the Lake is an abandoned salt extraction project, which was overrun with weeds.
Crude, laborious, time-consuming and traditional, are few words to describe the entire process, which is exclusively done by women.
Eberike filled her earthen pot to capacity, and balanced it on her head. This was her second trip for the day, and the time was 10.13am.
As she exit the lake, women approached the lake one after another to collect saltwater.
For the past 61-years, Eberike has been making frequent visits to this lake, to fetch saline, which she refined locally into salt.
In front of her house, an enamel basin containing saturated hot brine, and a calabash, was on burning firewood.
“I started cooking this saltwater about two hour ago,” Eberike said, in the local dialect, as she gently removed the calabash inside the basin. “But, the salt will not be ready today.”
The calabash, which was placed inside the basin serves as a filter. After a while, all the sand in the liquid assembled at the bottom of the calabash.
Eberike sieving dirt from the brine
“Doing this repeatedly helps to make the colour of the salt pure white,” she said, washing off the dirt in the calabash.
Then, she poured a portion of the brine she had just fetched, into the saturated liquid.
To produce salt, the brine is heated for long hours until the water evaporates, leaving behind the salt.
According to Eberike, this process could take one or more days, depending on the size of salt she one desires to produce, and quantity of firewood available.
Several pots of brine is required to produce a sizeable quantity of salt, and this means, making more than one visit to the lake.
When the liquid dropped below half level, Eberike topped it up. Then, using a broken calabash, she removed the dirt particles, dancing on the surface of the liquid.
“The number of women producing this salt has dropped drastically, because of the laborious nature of the process,” she said. “Some of them now live with their children in the cities.”
As she adjusts the firewood, a boy sauntered, and announced he had come to purchase some salt. Eberike disappeared inside her house, and reemerged with some salt, which she handed to the boy. Money exchanged hands, and she makes her way back to the lake for more brine.
Few houses away, Oluchi Agwu, was also producing salt.
Agwu, a middle-aged woman, who has been in the business for 23-years, woke up before 4am, and by 2pm, the salt was ready.
“If you have enough firewood, you can produce salt in a day,” she said, pouring the hot salt inside a basket.
While waiting for the salt to cool, Agwu quickly put another basin of brine with calabash inside, on the firewood.

According to her, she is trying to produce enough salt to meet the demand of her customers, who she said would visit in three days.
In less than an hour, the salt in the basket was ready to be packed. Agwu fished out plates and began dishing the salt from the basket into plates. Dipping her hand intermittently inside a small bucket of water, she moulded the salt nicely, after which she kept them close to the fireplace.
“If the salt is not properly dried, it will turn to water,” she said, as she turned her attention to the boiling liquid. “I always advise my customers to leave the salt in the sun to dry before storage.”
Nnenna Okoro, another salt producer, has been toiling all day. It’s the third day, and she doubt the salt would be ready before dusk.
“I didn’t have enough firewood,” Okoro said. “I just got some this afternoon.”
There were other women like Nkechi, Ogbokoro, Nwanyi Sunday, Nwokoro, and Chukwu, who were also busy producing salt.
Forty minutes’ drive away from Okposi is Umuchima Community, where Uburu Salt Lake is located.
Close-by is a Salt extraction plant, which was erected by the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO). However, the structure is abandoned and overgrown with grass.
The Uburu Salt Lake covers a larger surface area when compared to the Okposi Salt Lake but, the method of brine collection here is quite different. The salt-water collected from the lake is poured into earthen pots containing sand, which acts as the filter beds. Beneath each earthen pot is a calabash, which is built into the ground. The calabashes are lined up, with each sand filter pot hanging directly above a calabash.
The brine filters through the sand in the pot, and escapes into the calabash beneath. This distillation process usually takes a long while.
Abandoned Salt extraction plant at Uburu Salt Lake
As the brine sifters through, Chinaza Igwe, a salt maker, scoops the saltwater into her pot using a cup placed near the filter pots.
Igwe moves from one calabash to another, patiently scooping the distilled brine from each calabash, until she filled up her pot. But, the saltwater was brownish.
“The saltwater takes the colour of the sand,” Igwe said, in the native dialect. “But, when I am done making the salt, it comes fine.”
At home, she emptied the brine inside a metal drum and the heating began. But, the salt will not be ready until the third day.
“I have to make sure the salt is as white as that salt,” Igwe said, pointing at a yellow basin containing salt. “This takes so much time.”
The process of salt preparation in Uburu takes a longer time, and consumes even more firewood.
 
Distribution
After production, some of the salt is moved to the community market, where buyers from far and near can access them, while some of the product find their way out of the State.
The salt is not used for food preparation alone.
Agwu welcomes customers from Aba and Port Harcourt, who buy in bulk for herbal medicine production.
“This salt is medicinal. It neutralizes poison and it’s used to treats some illness,” she boosted, in the local parlance. “Those who are hypertensive are advised to use the salt because it’s natural.”
When big clients are not knocking on her door, Agwu moves the salt to the community market.
The price of the product ranges from N200 to N2,000, depending on the size.
Due to the high demand for the local salt, coupled with the increase in cost of production, Agwu said, they decided to review the price upwards.
The size they sell for N200, was previously sold for N150, while the N500 worth of salt used to go for N400.
“During festive periods, I increase the price. In April, I sold the N500 worth of salt for N700, to those travelling back to other States, after the Easter break,” Agwu said.
Eberike relies on buyers in and close to the community for patronage. When students on excursions and tourists visits, she makes even bigger profits.
“Even oyibo people, who came here to see the Salt Lake, bought some to take to their country,” the 80-year-old producer said, with a grin. “Our salt has travelled very far.”
Firewood is gold
 In both communities, the salt producers have a common challenge— Firewood. Local salt production consumes a lot of firewood.
But, this important commodity, is in short supply.
“I bought these firewood for N500,” Rosemary Okorie, a salt maker in Okposi said, pointing at three small pieces of firewood. “I’m even lucky to get them, because we don’t really have firewood here.”
Agwu packaging locally refined salt
With little or no firewood in sight, the salt producers had to rely on Edda, a community about 23kilometres from Okposi, and Alayi, a community in Abia State, which is 66kilometres from Okposi, for firewood supplies.
“Drivers from Alayi bring firewood in trucks for us to buy,” Okoro said.
The women contribute money, buy a truckload and split the firewood among themselves.
According to Eberike, N5,000 worth of firewood would fetch her a profit of between N4,000 and 5,000, depending on the level of patronage.
“The firewood can last up to a month, and with that quantity, I can cook as much as 10 pots of salt,” she said.
A means to an end
The energy, time, and patience, which goes into local salt production, is not commensurate with the profit realized.
“It’s not easy,” said Agwu. “But, there is nothing we can do.”
Agwu said the installation of the salt extraction in the community raised the hopes of many, but it was dashed afterwards.
“We were happy when they started building it, but they didn’t complete it,” she said, disappointedly.
But, rather than complain, Eberike decided to count her blessings.
“I catered for my nine children with the profits I made from this business,” Eberike said. “I’m still making enough money to take care of my needs.”
Although the process is a tedious one, Agwu said the business is a still a lucrative one and has put food on the tables of many.
“All we need to buy is the firewood,” she said. “The saltwater is free.”
Rising salt importation
The rate at which salt is imported into Nigeria has been on the upward swing.
In the first quarter of 2019, the total crude salt imported into Nigeria stood at N4.5billion, representing an increase of 25percent compared to first quarter of 2018.
Nigeria imported N2.1billion worth of crude salt from Brazil, and N1.5billion from Namibia, in the first quarter of 2018, according to data obtained from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS).
Salt filter pots
However, this figure grew significantly in first quarter of 2019, as Nigeria’s total crude salt import was recorded at N4.5billion — N2.3billion from Namibia, and N2.2billion.
In March, 2019, salt import topped the Nigeria Import Chart for the first time, as it rose to a whooping 13million metric tonnes from a paltry 23metric tonnes in February, 2019, according to the shipping position from the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA).
In the third quarter of 2017, Nigeria imported N1.68billion worth of crude salt from Brazil, N1.33billion from Namibia, N173.36million from the United Kingdom, and N5million from Germany, bringing the total figure of salt imported into the country in the third quarter of 2017 to N3.19billion. This total figure rose by 12.8percent to N3.6billion in the first quarter of 2018, and by 41percent to 4.5billion in the first quarter of 2019.
In a space of 10-years, between 2003 and 2013, Nigeria spent over N3.6trillion to import bulk salt.
Analysts are of the view that these figures will continue to rise as long as the country’s local brines remain untapped.
Interventions  
In March, 2009, Ebonyi State received a grant of $87,939 from the Japanese government. The grant was given under the Japanese Assistance for Grassroots Human Security Projects (GGP), to boost the capacity of women in the salt producing communities.
The ambassador of Japan to Nigeria at that time, Toshitsugu Uesawa, stated that the purpose of the grant, was to provide modern salt production technology, and reduce the labour involved in using traditional method for salt production.
The project was executed under the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO) Poverty Reduction through Productive Activities, with the Ebonyi State Salt Manufacturing Cooperative Union as the implementing partner.
According to Uesawa, the project is expected to generate income and improve the living standards of the women in the salt producing communities.
But, this expectation has been cutoff as the salt extraction plants in the communities are abandoned and overgrown with grass.
While local salt producers keep hope of a better tomorrow alive, they continue to make a pinch of salt at a time.

			
			Post Views: 
			99