The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State has condemned Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for ignoring the tragedy that befell Lagos State in the aftermath of the pipeline explosion to join the federal delegation to Egypt for the African Cup of Nations (AFCON). The state party declared that the governor was insensitive to the plight of the people at a time the state faced two devastating incident.
PDP State Publicity Secretary, Taofik Gani, in a statement in Lagos on Sunday, accessed byNational Daily, indicated that at a time the state was still mourning over Thursday’s pipeline explosion in Ijegun, it was disappointing that the governor had chosen to remain in Egypt.
Gani expressed that the governor ought to have canceled the trip to Egypt and visit the location of the explosion to condole with the victims and community.
Taofik Gani had declared; “Pictures of Sanwo-Olu currently at the AFCON competition in Egypt have gone viral on social media, thus, provoking reactions from various quarters.
“While we are not condemning the gesture of the governor to go and watch AFCON and support the Super Eagles, we are vehemently opposed to the timing.
“The PDP expected the governor to pay visits to the families of innocent people who lost their lives to the fire disaster.
“We also expected him to visit those who sustained severe burns at the hospitals and pick up their medical bills .
“The governor’s presence in Egypt at this time of losses to boat mishaps and explosion is insensitive, and we are urging him to return home to do the needful.”
Gani also disclosed that the state PDP had it from good authority that the trip of Sanwo-Olu along with some leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) cost the Lagos State government N470 million. He was of the view that the trip was a waste of tax payer’s money; protesting that it was morally wrong considering the challenges in the state, which he identified to include bad roads, gridlock, etc, begging for attention. The State PDP challenged Sanwo-Olu to give governance priority.












			
			Post Views: 
			90