The political benefactor of former Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State and the governorship candidate of Action Alliance (AA), Uche Nwosu, in the 2019 governorship election, has declared war with Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State over the seeming confrontation with his predecessor, Okorocha. Nwosu noted that Ihedioha has extended his skirmishes with Okorocha to him and his family.
National Dailylearned that Uche Nwosu, Okorocha’s failed anointed successor, resolved to wage spiritual war against Ihedioha, whom he accused of affront on political opponents in the state. He gave reasons for his resolution to confront Ihedioha in a return ‘violent’ manner, choosing to adhere to divinity.
Uche Nwosu had declared: “Earlier today, the Governor of Imo State took his aggression against me and my family to a most dangerous level by sending his Chief Security Officer (CSO), SP Ibe Chukwu (AP No87678), Jasper and thugs to beat up my wife. My wife was in her Mother’s furniture showroom at Owerri, when without provocation an aide of the governor hit her and threatened to kill her.
“This is the first time we are having a governor who would go extra miles to harass his opponent. We had Governor Udenwa in this State, and at no time did he send anyone to beat up the wives of his rivals, Ohakim didn’t do that, neither did Owelle Rochas Okorocha do that. I feel this is an affront on my wife.
“My Bible commands me not to pay evil with evil and that is what I’m going to do. I leave them to God.”
Nwosu was Chief of Staff to former Governor Okorocha before he was anointed to succeed his principal.
Ihedioha in his weeping reforms in Imo State, set up task force on recovery of government property from former office holders in Imo State. The recovery coincides with the operations of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on recovery of loots in Imo State by the former governor. Several businesses of Okorocha have been under investigation of the EFCC.
However, while the operations could be noble in charting new course of governance in Imo State, the recovery processes have been generating concerns.
The searchlight continues to recover looted property in Imo State during the last administration.







			
			Post Views: 
			3,586