The new General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division, Nigerian Army, Major General Olu Irefin, on Monday assumed duty at Kofo Abayomi, Lagos.



Before his appointment, he was the Commander, Defence Headquarters Garrison, Abuja. He took over the mantle of leadership of the Division from Maj Gen Musa Yusuf, who has been redeployed and appointed as the Chief of Administration (Army), Abuja.

Gen Irefin, after the signing of Handing and Taking over note as well as the investiture of the Division’s accoutrements, said he would hit the ground running immediately to improve on results achieved by his predecessor or surpass his achievements.

The GOC, who commended the Chief of Army Staff for his appointment, noted that such higher position comes with huge challenges but added that he would look forward to all the expectations with a view to achieving enviable result.

“I wish to continue to improve on what my predecessor has done or achieved. With the cooperation of all the officers and soldiers, we would hit the ground running immediately,” Gen Irefin reiterated.

Earlier in his farewell remarks at the 65 Battalion Parade Ground, Bonny Cantonment, the outgone General Officer Commanding, Maj Gen Musa Yusuf expressed joy and satisfaction for piloting the affairs of the Division in the last one year.

While applauding officers and men for their support, he charged them to maintain good professional conduct.

However, he also warned them to shun unwholesome activities that would bring the image of the Nigerian Army into disrepute.

Also, Gen Yusuf thanked other security agencies for their cooperation and synergy adding that in the last one year, the Division was able to introduce other training activities that enhenced professionalism and regimentation.

While addressing officers at the Conference Room, 81 Division Headquarters, Gen Yusuf reiterated the need to support his successor.

“If we have achieved anything in the last eleven months, it is because of your support, advises and the roles you played while I was the GOC. I wish you extend the same support of being a team player to the incoming GOC.

“Failure by the Division is failure for all of us and failure for the Nigerian Army,” Gen Yusuf added.



			
			Post Views: 
			364