The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 general elections, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, on Monday berated President Muhammadu Buhari over use of state powers meant for good governance to persecute former President of the Senate, Dr, Bukola Saraki. In a statement sent to National Daily, Atiku remarked that
“Silence in the face of tyranny is acquiescence,” adding the he cannot stand aloof and watch innocent citizens or political opponents being persecuted by a president diverting state powers to fighting political opponents.
Atiku stated that he stands against corruption in government, which, he said, made his office facilitate the take-off of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, after it was created by former President Olusegun Obasanjo.
“However, there is a huge difference between prosecution and persecution. I am all for prosecuting the corrupt but I believe it is wrong to use the instruments of state to persecute political opponent,” the former Vice President decried.
ALSO READ: Media war: Saraki replies EFCC
Atiku protested that Dr. Bukola Abubakar Saraki, former Senate President, is one of the most investigated politicians in Nigeria “He has been investigated and prosecuted all the way to the Supreme Court and has prevailed against his accusers. It was expected that that should have been the end of the matter,” he argued.
Atiku also complained that however, the revival of previously investigated cases, and the fact that Dr. Saraki was politically opposed to the administration of General Muhammadu Buhari seems to give strong grounds for objective bystanders to conclude that his current travails have gone beyond prosecution and are now tending towards persecution.
‘The laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria are made for all and we fought for democracy so that the powers of the state would not be used to suborn tyranny and oppression.
“In the instance, I urge Dr. Bukola Saraki to stand firm and take solace in the fact that Nigerians still hold the constitution higher than any other authority.
“I urge all Nigerians, and especially, those tasked with upholding the constitution and the laws of the land, to note that silence in the face of oppression is akin to acquiescence. I, Atiku Abubakar, will always stand up for the constitution and Nigeria,” the former vice president declared.

			
			Post Views: 
			17