Some Youth association in the southwest Nigeria have disputed President Muhammadu Buhari’s statement that security operatives in Nigeria are winning the war against the bandits, terrorists, kidnappers and armed robbers in the country.
National Daily learned that the Yoruba Youth Socio-Cultural Association (YYSA) disputed President Buhari’s statement at the graduation of Senior Course 41, Armed Forces Command and Staff College (AFCSC), Jaji, Kaduna State, to be untrue that the security agencies in the country are gaining the upper hand in the fight against banditry, kidnapping, and terrorism. The youths rather asserted that there are serious security problems across the country, including President Buhari’s own state, Katsina, where criminals have made life unbearable for citizens.
National Dailygathered that the YYSA National Secretary, Olawale Ajao, in a statement at the weekend, declared: “In fact, there is serious tension everywhere including President Buhari’s home town.
“Besides, we have been calling on the government to put an end to the activities of killer herdsmen, kidnappers and armed robbers in the southwest region far before Mrs. Funke Olakunrin was murdered. Had necessary measures been put in place, Mrs Olakunrin would not have died untimely.”
Also, the Federation of Ekiti State Students Union was said to have bemoaned the rising incidence of killings and other violent crimes across the country, vowing to support leaders of the Yoruba nation to wage war to defend their territory.
National Dailygathered that the National Senate President of the Federation of Ekiti State Students’ Union, Kolade Ifeoluwa, had in a statement at the weekend in Ado-Ekiti, challenged the six southwest governors to stand for the people of the zone, declaring the students support for the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adams, to declare war in defence of the region to protect the land from further invasion.
The National Senate President was cited to have declared in the statement in part: “The time for our governors to stand up on our behalf is now. They can count on our support anytime we are called upon in their bid to drive out these criminals from our land.”










			
			Post Views: 
			140