The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), on Tuesday warned the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 general elections, Atiku Abubakar, to stop usurping the powers of President Muhammadu Buahri.
APC in a statement the National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu, on Tuesday night, protested that it has noted that Atiku has been issuing statements on national issues as if he is the alternative President of Nigeria.
The ruling party chided Atiku for frequent issuance of statements on public issues in disregard of the sovereignty of the Office of the President of Nigeria, currently occupied by Buhari.
The statement read: “We have noted Alhaji Atiku’s incessant habits of releasing statements on public issues as if he were an alternative President of this country and with a clear intention to undermine President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC-led government.
“In recent times, Alhaji Atiku has demonstrated lack of regard for the sovereignty of the office of the President and Nigerian government through condescending statements. He has made several of such statements regarding the activities of the Nigerian military, issues of national security, and international relations.
“The latest of such statements is the one he made on the emergence of Mr. Boris Johnson as Prime Minister of Britain even when our duly elected President, who has the responsibility of making an official statement on such matter, has made the position of our country known.
“We note with serious concern that Alhaji Atiku has been throwing himself around as a shadow President of Nigeria. We would like to state clearly that such position could only be found under the parliamentary system; it does not exist under the Presidential system of government that we practice in Nigeria.
“Alhaji Atiku, like every Nigerian citizen, should understand that being a candidate for an elective office, including that of the President, does not confer on him a sovereign status. Alhaji Atiku’s continuous portrayal of himself as a shadow President under our system borders on felony and makes him a patent impostor.
“There can only be one democratically elected and legitimate government at a time in this country. That clearly is the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. It is important to remind Alhaji Atiku that issues of national security, foreign policy and international engagements are not matters to be exploited to achieve mischievous political ends.
“We reiterate that Alhaji Atiku has lost the 2019 presidential election and it would be unhelpful to him to continue to make a mockery of our country. We expect Alhaji Atiku to quickly address himself to the stark reality of his loss and move on.
“Our laws are clear on all acts of criminality, in this case, a clear case of felony. Nigerians expect that the enforcement of relevant laws should apply to every Nigerian, irrespective of class and status. This government would not be found wanting where it is required to take decisive actions.”







			
			Post Views: 
			64