The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the Inspector General Police, Adamu Mohammed, have been barred from harassing or interfering in the legislative duties of the Edo State House of Assembly.
Justice M. Umar gave the order following a motion ex-parte, filed by Alhaji Yayaha Audu Omogbai, Clerk of the Assembly and the Edo State House of Assembly.
Recall that only 11 out 24 lawmakers in the Edo Assembly have been sworn-in. The 13 other lawmakers-elect believed to have the backing of Oshiomhole have fled to Abuja over alleged threat to life.
At the hearing of the suit, Justice Umar ordered defendants in the suit, their servants and agents, not to interfere, disrupt or obstruct the constitutional duties of members of the Edo House of Assembly.
The defendants are the National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Inspector General of Police, the Commissioner of Police in Edo State and Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu.
Justice Umar also barred them from further publishing in any newspaper or other media, any inciting publications concerning the inauguration of the 7th Assembly of the Edo State House Assembly and the election of the Speaker and Deputy Speaker which took place on 17/6/2019 in the Edo State House of Assembly.
He ruled “that an interim order of injunction is hereby granted restraining the defendants by themselves, their servants, agents, officers or privies from interfering with, obstructing or harassing, in any manner whatsoever, the plaintiffs in the performance of their constitutional duties as the Legislative Arm of the Edo State Government pending the hearing and determination of the motion on Notice for interlocutory injunction.
“That interim order of injunction is also granted restraining the defendants by themselves, their servants, agents, officers or privies from further committing any act aimed at disparaging the integrity of the legislative arm of the Edo State Government and/or destabilising the peace, order and good governance of Edo State in general, pending the hearing and determination of the Motion on Notice for interlocutory injunction.”
The case was adjourned to 9th October 2019.

			
			Post Views: 
			136