Former President Olusegun Obasnjo has sent condolences to the bereaved Reuben Fasorantis who just lost their 58-year-old daughter Funke Olakunrin to armed bandits suspected to be Fulani herdsmen along the Ore junction road on Friday.
Eyewitness account has pinned the death on herdsmen, but the Ondo police authorities said they were armed robbers.
Consoling the family in the letter his media aide Kehinde Adeyemi made available to newsmen Saturday, Obasanjo, who is in Morocco now, said the death just diminished Nigeria as a whole.
He urged the  government to go after the killer, and find a lasting solution to the Fulani herdsmeen violece acrossthe nation.
Obasanjo has accused the President Myhammadu Buhari government of fostering a Fulanisation and Islamization agenda.
 
Letter
CONDOLENCE
I received, today, the tragic news of the death of your beloved daughter, Mrs. Funke Olakunri, who was killed by some suspected Fulani herdsmen.
This is a worrisome development in our polity, especially, at a time when all well-meaning Nigerians are preaching tolerance and political accommodation in national politics. I must say Nigeria as a whole is diminished by the manner of Funke’s death. We deplore this dastardly act and seize this opportunity to call on governments at all levels to leave no stone unturned in ensuring that our security agents vigorously pursue and find the perpetrators of such heinous crime and make them face the full weight of the law. We must, together, find solution to all acts of insecurity in the country, particularly acts of banditry, kidnapping, robbery and killing by the suspected Fulani herdsmen.
As you mourn the tragic loss of our very dear Funke, please be assured of the sympathy and profound sorrow of many others like me who are saddened by the manner of her demise, especially as she still had a lot to contribute to the nation and her family to which she was highly devoted.
Let me also implore you to be strong for the entire family. I pray that God Himself will comfort you and sustain the whole family in this hour of painful trial. And may the soul of the dear departed rest in perfect peace.
Because I have to be in Morocco, I am sending a delegation of Otunba Oluwole Fasawe and Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola with this letter and to personally deliver my condolence.

			
			Post Views: 
			35