The House of Representatives has resolved to investigate the crisis in the Edo State House of Assembly.
The ad hoc committee has one week to report back to the House.
The resolution follows a motion of urgent national importance, titled: “Urgent Need for intervention in the Edo State House of Assembly Crisis”, sponsored by three members – Prof. Julius Ihonvbere, Peter Akpatason and Johnson Oghuma.
Ihonvbere berated “the clandestine and nocturnal inauguration of the seventh Edo State House of Assembly on June 17, wherein nine of the 24 members-elect were purportedly sworn in without the knowledge of the other 15 members”.
He said: “At the so-called nocturnal inauguration, some of the members were improperly dressed. The lawmakers complained about the illegality against the growing security challenges in Edo State.
“No normal legislative business can take place unless the proper procedure for inaugurating the lawmakers is done as envisaged and guaranteed by the Constitution of the Federal of Nigeria, and security provided.”
The motion was passed after a long deliberation and voting.
Thereafter, the Speaker constituted a fact-finding committee headed by Abdulrasak Namdas for the assignment.
But Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, Frank Okiye, has called on the House of Representatives not to be used for personal interests.
ALSO READ:Edo State PDP rejects INEC ad hoc staff, claims they are APC members
According to Okiye, the Edo House of Assembly was duly inaugurated on June 17, and the business of law-making has been going on without any hindrances.
He said: “May I state that aside the fact that the Assembly complied with the Constitution in the inauguration of memebrs, there also exists a court order that ational Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Inspector General of Police, Commissioner of Police in Edo State, APC Publicity Secretary Lanre Issa-Onilu, all defendants, their servants and agents, not to interfere, disrupt or obstruct the constitutional duties of members of the Edo House of Assembly.
“We welcome the decision of the House of Representatives to investigate issues surrounding the inauguration of the Edo State House of Assembly. We are confident it would not find anything contrary to the provisions of the constitution. We humbly advise the lawmakers to be guided and not get involved in petty politics to fan the ego of an aspiring Godfather.”

			
			Post Views: 
			95