The Igbimo Odo Yoruba on Monday admonished President Muhammadu Buhari to resist the temptation of heeding to the demand of his Fulani brothers, Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association, to arrest former President Olusegun Obasanjo over the open letter on the rising insecurity in the country and the consequences of not taking firm action to contain it. The Yoruba group while acquainting the President of the carnage the arrest of Obasanjo will generate, cautioned the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association against further threats to national security and stability of the country.
The Igbimo Odo Yoruba in a statement by the Secretary General, Olufemi Lawson, accessed byNational Daily,cautioned the President that the federal government would be calling for a clash if Obasanjo is arrested.
The group also declared their support for Dr. Obasanjo and encouraged him to sustain his advocacy against the ill-policies of the government and the leadership of President Buhari as an elder statesman.
 
The statement reads;
The Igbimo Odo Yoruba’s attention has been drawn to a media statement today, by a faction of the dreaded Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association, calling on the Federal Government to arrest former President Olusegun Obasanjo, over comments made by him in his open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday.
We strongly consider this ridiculous call by this faction of the notorious Miyetti Allah group as not only an insult but a joke taken too far by these characters, who have, today, become an organization of national security concern to the average Nigerian. We want to liken the latest call for the arrest of former President Obasanjo to the infamous 30 days ultimatum issued by one of its surrogate organizations known as the Coalition of Northern Group CNG, over issues around the establishment of cattle colonies by the Buhari administration.
We hereby dare the Federal government to arrest President Olusegun Obasanjo and see what will be the fallout of such action.
It is worrisome that people who ordinarily should be behind bars for the numerous crimes against humanity in Nigeria, that were the issues around which Chief Obasanjo letter focused on, are now audacious enough making media appearances and issuing further threats to the security and stability of our country.
We loudly say that for the federal government to make any attempt to arrest Chief Obasanjo or any of our leaders, who have risen to the occasion of calling on this administration to act, in the face of a likely national disintegration, being fuelled mainly by the atrocious activities of the members of Miyetti Allah will not augur well, not only for the present government, but also every enablers of the atrocities being committed against Nigerians, particularly in the southwest.
Today, Nigerians are watching helplessly, as Fulani herdsmen masquerading as Miyetti Allah, keep tormenting innocent citizens while carrying out lots of atrocities against non-Fulani communities with the federal government not raising an eyebrow.
We repeat that if Buhari’s government continues to keep quiet as these marauders keep insulting our sensibilities without immediately putting an end to their criminalities across the country, we shall no longer take it kindly with the government and those assaulting our people.
If this administration wants to make any arrests, they should start from these criminals and terrorists who have made lives miserable for us and are pushing our country completely to the brink.
Whoever thinks of arresting President Obasanjo or any of our leaders should immediately bury such thought because it will backfire seriously on them.
We also want to call on government and security agencies to immediately call these factions of Miyetti Allah to order against making disparaging statements that are uncalled for. There is nothing unusual about citizens particularly elder statesman like Chief Obasanjo, speaking against politics of the incumbent provided they are based on facts.
We urge Chief Olusegun Obasanjo to remain consistent and feel free to call the incumbent administration to order when need be.
We have spoken!










			
			Post Views: 
			96