Lagosians on Wednesday expressed joy and satisfaction with the quality of health care delivery they received from medical personnel of the Nigerian Army during a free medical outreach carried out at selected locations in Lagos metropolis.

Places where residents benefited included Dolphin High School Play Ground, Sura, Lagos Island; Lagos International Trade Fair Complex, Lagos-Badagry Expressway and Ajegunle, along Lagos-Ikorodu Expressway.

At Lagos Island location, residents had free consultations, diagnosis for different diseases and illnesses, such as malaria, blood sugar and other ailments. Drugs were also given to patients according to prescription by the doctors.

Addressing the residents during the distribution of dental facilities and mosquito nets to them, the respresentative of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Maj Gen KAY Isiyaku, who is the Chief of Army Administration, explained that the medical outreach was part of their Corporate Social Responsibility to host communities.

Responding to journalists question on how often they replicate this kind gesture outside army celebration, he explained that they do it every other time and would still continue to be doing it to serve humanity. “We give free medical care during indepdence anniversary, Armed Forces Remembrance Day.

“This is to say thank you for believing in us and playing your part as host communities. The free medical outreach is being carried out in all army locations across the country.

“The COAS has paid for everything and the residents would be attended to in the areas of free consultation, drugs, eyes glasses, dental facilities like tooth brushes and paste. Those with severe conditions would be referred to our 68 Reference Hospital and other medical centres.

“We are given to society what they have done for us. It is a token from us. Nigerian Army is for you because anytime we come to you, you open your door for us. We were not born with army uniform. We are celebrating 156 years of our existence and we are very happy to identify with you as our host, he concluded.

Also speaking, the Chief of Standards and Evaluation, Army headquarters, Maj Gen Adekunle Shodunke added that what we are doing is to ensure that communities that are close to us enjoy the facilities that we have, adding that NA will continue to support host communities.

Earlier, expressing their joy and satisfaction over the free medical provision, some of the residents beared their mind in the most estatic manner.

Mrs Bisuga Feyisara, a trader, who was treated for eyes problem and had a free eyes glass pointed out that “before now, I couldn’t read with my eyes but with the pair of glasses, I can now read very well. Besides, I was also attended to at the Dental clinic. I am grateful to their kind heartedness for bringing this medical care to our domain,” she concluded.

Comrade Mustapha Bashiru also noted that, “we enjoyed what they are doing. In fact, their level of attention to beneficiaries/patients is superb and I must commend their efforts. However, I want to use this opportunity to call on every Nigerian to participate in future exercises of this nature.

Over 2,000 Lagos residents benefited from the free medical rhpasody within Lagos metropolis, which is part of the activities marking the Nigerian Army Day Celebration, (NADCEL) 2019.





Download all attachments as a zip file


			
			Post Views: 
			40