National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the Inspector General Police (IG), Adamu Mohammed, have been barred from harassing or interfering in the legislative duties of the Edo State House of Assembly.
Justice M. Umar gave the order following an motion ex-parte by Clerk Yayaha Audu Omogbai and the House of Assembly.
Defendants in the June 28 suit are National Working Committee of the APC, IG, Edo State Commissioner of Police and National Spokesman of the APC Lanre Issa-Onilu.
Justice Umar ordered the defendants, their servants and agents, not to interfere, disrupt or obstruct the constitutional duties of members of the Assembly.
He also barred the defendants from further publishing in any newspaper or other media, any inciting publications concerning the inauguration of the seventh Assembly, as well as the election of the Speaker and Deputy Speaker which held on June 17.
The court document reads: “An interim order of injunction is hereby granted restraining the defendants by themselves, their servants, agents, officers or privies from interfering with, obstructing or harassing, in any manner whatsoever, the plaintiffs in the performance of their constitutional duties as the Legislative Arm of the Edo State Government pending the hearing and determination of the motion on Notice for interlocutory injunction.
“That interim order of injunction is also granted restraining the defendants by themselves, their servants, agents, officers or privies from further committing any act aimed at disparaging the integrity of the legislative arm of the Edo State government and/or destabilising the peace, order and good governance of Edo State in general, pending the hearing and determination of the Motion on Notice for interlocutory injunction.”
ALSO READ: US consults Gani Adams’ on RUGA, inter-ethnic security threats in Nigeria
The case was adjourned till October 9.
Only 12 of the 24 lawmakers in the Assembly have been sworn in. The 12 others, believed to have the backing of Oshiomhole, have since June 20 fled to Abuja over alleged threats to their life.
The lawmaker-elect representing Akoko-Edo II, Emmanuel Agbaje, has been sworn in. Agbaje was sworn-in yesterday when the Assembly convened about 4.24pm by Speaker Frank Okiye who administered the oath of office.
Okiye explained that the House had to reconvene because of the compulsory retirement of a deputy Clerk of the House which would only become effective with confirmation from the House.
Agbaje said he presented himself for swearing in based on the position of his constituents and leaders of the APC.




















ReplyReply allForward
































			
			Post Views: 
			126