President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday promoted two Nigerian Army generals and a Lieutenant for their extra-ordinary feat, courage, uncommon commitment and valour in their counter-insurgency operations in the North East.

The beneficiaries are the present Chief of Operations and Training, Army Headquarters, Maj Gen Lamidi Adeosun, who has been promoted to the rank of a Lieutenant General and the Acting General  Officer Commanding, (GOC), 7 Division and Commander, Sector 2  Operation Lafiya Dole, Maiduguri, Brig Bulama Biu, who has been promoted to the rank of Major General.

According to the Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Col Sagir Musa,  in Abuja on Tuesday,  “President Muhammadu Buhari has demonstrated total and unflinching support to the Armed Forces of Nigeria in the bid to effectively contain the security situation in the country especially activities of terrorists in the North East.

In particular, he added, “the government has shown commitment to recognizing excellence, dedication and commitment on the part of personnel of the Nigerian Army.

“It is in this wise that the President, Commander – in – Chief, President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the accelerated promotion of two senior officers and a subaltern of the Nigerian Army.

“The officers are granted promotion for their extra-ordinary feats, courage, exemplary leadership, loyalty, uncommon commitment and valour in the counter insurgency operation in the North Eastern part of the country.”

He further revealed that the “two senior officers are Major General L.O Adeosun, the Chief of Training and Operations at Army Headquarters who has been promoted to the rank of Lieutenant General and Brigadier General AB Biu, General Officer Commanding 7 Division and Commander Sector 2 Operation LAFIYA DOLE Maiduguri, promoted to the rank of Major General.

“Also, promoted to the rank of Captain is Lieutenant AJ Danjibrin of 211 Demonstration Battalion Bauchi.

President Muhammadu Buhari has equally conveyed his personal congratulations to the promoted officers and charged them to continue to be shining examples to their colleagues.

Similarly, the Chief of Army Staff Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai, on behalf of officers and soldiers of the Nigerian Army also felicitated with the newly promoted officers.

Before now, the Nigerian Army has only one person with the rank of a Lieutenant General and he is the Chief of Army Staff, Lt General Tukur Buratai.

The promotion also lends support to the speculation that the service chiefs might soon be retired having had all of them exceeding 35 years in service.

			
			Post Views: 
			388