Popular, Investigative journalist, Kemi Olunloyo has announced her exit from her ancestral home, Ibadan for a new destination.
The controversial figure expressed that her people in Ibadan did not celebrate her, and she is moving out of the state, which she declared as freedom.
She however didn’t state the exact location she is moving to, but mentioned that she is going to a place where she will be celebrated and with her plans, she will become the next billionaire.
Read her full statement below:
Thank you to everyone in my hometown #Ibadan I used to wanna be Governor over there, I put that city on the map nationally and internationally. They never celebrated me, never invited me to anything, even Jesus was not celebrated in his own city. I’m a bright kind intelligent woman who my dad calls a cat with nine lives.
Those who praise you are the same people happy at your downfall. PRAISE YOURSELVES and don’t wait for anyone to praise you. Anyone that has done me wrong is now officially forgiven. Go in peace, Iyabo, Davido, Linda, Ibadan people etc etc. They even called me a MAD woman.
I now wanna show you what MAD means. It’s “Making A Difference” . Wondering where I moved to? A continent called Africa. I’m on the move for the next year living in the capital of 54 cities empowering African youth. I will be the next BILLIONAIRE soon. My 55th birthday August 6th 2019, is in 22 days.
I will celebrate it in Nigeria. Next year in Jamaica on invitation of my good friend @romarley. I also need to bring our Marlian uncle to Nigeria. August 6th is Jamaica’s Independence day. In Bob’s word “The truth is, everyone is going to hurt you. You just got to find the ones worth suffering for”
S/O to @nairamarley a young musician who I’ve been fighting for on his civil rights in a cybercrime case.
GOD BLESS #OyoState. You lost me, All is not lost, Nigeria and Africa GAINED me. Special thanks to the young man @callme_Ambassador who came forward to celebrate me February 9th 2019 at Palms mall on retirement from @hnnafrica. Femi Ademulegun had a big event for me and simply said he believed in me”

			
			Post Views: 
			69