By Olanrewaju Adesanya
Worried by voter apathy recorded in the last general election, which clearly smears the huge political status of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola amongst their contemporaries from other states of Nigeria, eligible voters have been urged to be more responsible and involved in their political emancipation.
The Lagos State Chairman of the (IBORA) Hon.Fatusi Abiodun,while speaking at a stakeholders parley held within Ajeromi Ifelodun part of the Lagos West Senatorial district, stressed the need to adjust the voting pattern especially in the Southwest to be at par with their
contemporary state.
Fatusi maintained that given what transpired at the last election,where votes garnered from Lagos State was a far cry of what obtains in contemporary states like Kano and Kaduna with millions of votes, it speaks volume and caught the attention of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Aregbesola for which the duo mandated the group to kick start and
herald a more responsible social involvement of people in performance
of their civic duties of casting their votes.
The All Progressives Congress stakeholders from various local government areas were in attendance to chart a course towards increasing the voting base, in terms of figures so as to double the figures of active electorates to bring good fortune for Southwest
block.
“Electorates acceptability is key and must reflect figures like what obtains in Kano and Kaduna; we urged all to evolve a new voting pattern through timely action to rewrite the narrative in terms of
participation, most especially in the west. “At times we make verbal campaigns that we are going to galvanize 2million or 3million men on the street but during actual election the votes are nothing to write home about, compared with what the northern states churn out in votes.
“Ibora is all about the core values of Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola from the
ideology and experience imbibed from his leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, we are to be the middle men between the public office holder and the people, so when any of them refuse to do the needful we put them on their toes.
“The electorates are discouraged, so we want to encourage them, we had
to meet the community members to restore confidence, they will feel
and experience the positive effect of good governance, we are calling
on the people to do what is right and at the right time, we want to
increase the voting strength in every part of Lagos and Nigeria,” Fatusi reiterate.
The Supervisor for Works and Infrastructure Agbado Oke-Odo LCDA and
National President of ‘I Believe in Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola’  (IBORA),Alhaji Abdulwahab Ajulo commenting on the importance of the group noted that the voter apathy at the last general election makes the move essential and apt.
“We want to educate people and make the nation realize that Lagos State is densely populated and the issue of national unity, development and progress of the country is our main concern. Also to sensitize the people that the election should reflect that Lagos is a densely populated area when compared to what obtains in the northern states.
“So we want people to know that our civic, social responsibility is a major concern that will actually promote the image of the state in a better light. Some instead of performing their civic responsibility, stay in doors or go to the field to play football when they supposed
to be at the polling units to perform that obligation.
“The purpose of this gathering today to galvanize and sensitize people towards a better performance in future elections. It has been discovered that no amount of verbal campaigns made prior to election
can translate to huge electorates participation owing to some of their
basic expectations and needs not yet met.”
The former Vice Chairman of Ajeromi Local Government Alhaja Kudirat
Dada also part of the IBORA vanguard corroborated the core values of
the group, stating unequivocally that it appeals to all electorates irrespective of their party affiliations, sensitizing them to shun parochial stance in doing their civic obligation.
The Convener of IBORA, Hon.Ishola Olaosebikan in his own contribution
cited the fact that Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola is particular about
restoring people’s confidence in electoral process, through visible development and he has mandated them to watch and address issues that bothers on people’s welfare.
“We were recently at Abule Egba to do on spot assessment of a failing road network and we wrote the state in that regards, as I speak something concrete is being done to revamp that infrastructure that is part of IBORA’s numerous efforts, toward nation building.”Olaosebikan
said.






			
			Post Views: 
			89