An elder statesman and prominent leader in the north, Professor Ango Abdullahi, has berated critics of President Muhammadu Buhari’s ‘lopsided’ political appointments, especially, the service chiefs, dominated by the north, saying the president made the right decision.
National Dailylearned that Professor Ango Abdullahi, Chairman of the Northern Elders’ Forum (NEF), in a media interaction affirmed that there is nothing wrong in appointing service chiefs from one region of the country.
The NEF chairman speaking on the appointment of the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, from Nasarawa State, condemned people criticizing President Buhari on the decision beside the other service chiefs from northern Nigeria. Abdullahi rationalized that Service Chiefs do not make security decisions on the basis regions of their origin but make decisions for broader national interest.
Professor Abdullahi could not in his wise man analysis explain why such appointment opportunity could be given to the south in leaving the north out of it. Perhaps, he didn’t add what would have been his response if the appointments were to be in reversed variation in defiance to Federal Character principle inherent in the Nigerian constitution.   
Professor Abdullahi was cited to have declared: “It’s very sad that there is insinuation here that, for instance, the chief of police now is from Nasarawa State; is he going to take decision based on the fact that he is from Nassarawa State or, perhaps, on a larger scale; that the fact that the IG of Police is from Nasarawa State and Nasarawa State is a state in northern Nigeria, so he is chief of police from the north and, therefore, there will be no consideration on police matters concerning other parts of Nigeria?
“This is very sad, very dangerous argument that is being put forward. How many offices are we even talking about and you are saying lopsidedness of offices?
“Have you looked at the offices in the civil service and those that occupy them; so, what is the fuss all about? Are they parochial or are they biased in the discharge of duties concerning other parts of the country?”







			
			PV: 
			0