As part of the Club’s yearly routine in running a smooth development platform for youth players of Remo Stars Football Club, CD Fierense Youth Coach, Mr. Tiago Conde visited Ikenne Remo for a week long training program, National Daily learnt.

Conde who arrived last week Thursday, 27th June, 2019 was received by the Club’s Director of Youth Development, Daniel Ogumodede and was involved in training session with the U13, U15 and U17 team respectively.

During his stay, couple of friendly matches were played as Mr Conde watched and monitored closely the players performance where he made it known that there is an improvement from his last visit.

Having carefully observed the friendly matches, he made it clear that he is so happy to have noticed much more improvement in the team he saw last year and have penned down couple of names that could be on their way to join the Portuguese side, CD Fierense.

His words, “this time I see a very good improvement in these boys, they have grown bigger in their ability and the only thing I will keep hammering to Nigerian players generally is to stay hungry and stay foolish, I will say they should have a good character on and off the pitch because it’s only character that keeps you up there as a good player.”

“I will continue to appreciate the President of the club, Honourable Kunle Soname for his commitment and drive towards this project. I can see the boys are always hungry to give their all on the field of play,” he recounted.

Director of Youth Development, Daniel Ogunmodede who was pleased with Mr. Conde’s visit was full of advice and good words for the young players.

ALSO READ:Higuain wants Juve return alongside Sarri, Ronaldo

According to him, “It’s a great thing to have Mr. Conde around again this year. He was helpful the last time I was opportune to visit and
learn more from him when I went to Portugal few months back, he is here again to add his input to the development of these dedicated
players.”

He added, “I honestly want these players to continue their development here giving it all they have and most importantly learning the needful as it will help them to be successful in life as we continue to prepare them for a successful career either in or outside the shores of the country.”

Finally the Captain of the U17 side, Daniel Seidu feels he and his teammates including the younger ones (U13 and U15) are quite happy to have Tiago Conte around.

“We all are so happy to have him around because he added to their play on the field alongside the training pattern of the club and on behalf of the Youth Team, I want to use this opportunity to appreciate the Management, Coaching Crew of Remo Stars and Tiago Conde for their time” Daniel said.


			
			Post Views: 
			91