Admits ongoing investigations




Former Governor Rocahs Okorocha of Imo State on Wednesday denied that his property were sealed by the Economic and financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
The management of Governor Okorocha’s East High College and Academy had in a statement accessed by National Daily indicated that the property was not sealed, acknowledging that the property is rather being investigated by EFCC, adding that the management received invitation from the commission for interrogation. The school management, accordingly, acknowledged the “receipt of a letter of invitation from an individual who identified as a staff of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), inviting the Principal of the school to the Commission’s office in Enugu for an interview.” The school authorities made certain clarifications.
The clarifications read, in part: “…we wish to make the following clarifications;
1. The management of the East High College and Academy concedes that the EFCC is empowered by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to investigate financial transactions of private and public individuals and organizations.
2. That the management welcomes the Agency’s invitation with a clean conscience and will be cooperating with the Agency’s officials, each step of propertyhas
One of the sealed property
3. That the East High College and Academy are genuine fruits of hard work, enterprise and diligence by its President, Mrs. Uloma Rochas Nwosu, and our financial records, as per; funding and other necessary facts are available for the perusal of the Agency’s investigators and the general public.
4. That we understand that the Agency’s action is in response to series of frivolous petitions from known and unknown quarters, and we feel that this development provides a good opportunity for the school to permanently clear its name of misconceptions and deliberate misinformation as regards ownership and funding of the school.
5. That we assure parents, guardians, students and all friends of East High College and Academy to remain calm and confident, as our school is well equipped with relevant information to further showcase its transparency, innocence, honesty and modesty.
6. Our partners and friends are assured that normal academic and non-academic activities are not in anyway affected by this development.
Signed,
Management.







			
			Post Views: 
			98