Immediate past governor of Imo state, Senator Rochas Okorocha has advised his colleagues at the senate not to dabble into the crisis rocking the Edo state House of Assembly, describing it as a family affair that should be settle by the All Progressives Congress.
Recall that following the crisis which started when 9 of the 24 members of the State House of Assembly held impromptu elections to settle on a Speaker and other principal officers, the Senate decided to intervene, setting up a committee to look into the matter.
The Senate on Monday issued the order compelling Edo Governor Obaseki, to issue a fresh proclamation inaugurating the Edo State House of Assembly within a week.
“From what I’ve heard here, it looks like we’re eager to take over the Edo state house of assembly,” Okorocha said. “Looking at the report of the party, the clerk and all, it looks like a family of the APC which the leadership of the APC should find a way to solve.”
“There’s no proof whatsoever that the Edo state house of assembly isn’t functioning,” Okorocha added.
“We’ve had cases here or in the federal house where maces were taken away and no other national assembly came from anywhere to take over activities.
“I think this matter should not go outside the senate. Those of us in the caucus of the APC should resolve a family matter rather than make it a national assembly issue. What’s happening here is a failure of leadership and it should be resolved”, he added.
The former Imo Governor advised his colleagues to “exercise restraint lest we bring ourselves to ridicule”.
The Edo State Government has since defied the order, regarding it as unconstitutional and a blatant disregard of the principle of separation of powers.
A statement signed by Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Ogie, declared that, “this illegality will not stand” and urged, “Powerful persons not to be allowed to set our state ablaze merely to satisfy their thirst for power and control.”
Governor Obaseki and national Chairman of the governing APC, Adams Oshiomhole, are currently locked in a supremacy battle for Edo.
Sources say the crisis in the state legislature has everything to do with the battle between both men.


			
			Post Views: 
			153