As part of activities marking the World Blood Donor Day, the Trauma Care International Foundation, a member agency of the Chris Oyakhilome Foundation International has kick-started the annual voluntary blood donation campaign drive to raise awareness on the importance of donating safe blood as well as the need to save lives.

The event which began on 14th of June will run until the 30thof July and serves as a powerful initiative to raise awareness of the need for safe blood and safe blood products, while also providing an opportunity to donate and aid in this life-saving act.

As a result of this campaign, thousands of voluntary blood donors have been recruited from 27 countries and over 10 successful voluntary blood drives have been organized during this 6-week long project with the goal of ensuring the execution of 120 voluntary blood donation drives before the project ends on the 30th of July 2019.
According TCIF, various teams of support across all Christ Embassy zones and campus are on ground to provide utmost services to ensure an impactful and global effective blood donation drive.

There are five centres in Christ Embassy Kaduna under the supervision of Pastor Marcel Obode; Lagos Zone 3 of the church has 2 centres under Pastor Femi Otenigbagbe.

Christ embassy Warri Ministry has 10 centres with Evang. (Dr) Eddy Owase in charge while Christ Embassy Onitsha has 1 centre under Pastor Archie Aseme.  Also Christ Embassy Kano has one centre with Osagie Osaghae in charge.

Other cenres are: Christ Embassy Akure – 1 Centre- Joe Ezire; Pastor Emma Akhuemokhan; Christ Embassy Benin Virtual Zone 2 – 1 Centre; Pastor Lekan Balogun; Christ Embassy Lagos Zone 1 – 2 Centres; Pastor Mary Owase; Christ Embassy Mid-West Zone – 5 Centres; Pastor Emeka Eze; Christ Embassy Lagos Zone 2 – 5 Centres.

Pastor Obi Umeasiegbu; Christ Embassy Nigeria South-South Zone 1 – 10 Centres; Pastor Gabriel Omorogieva; Christ Embassy Ibadan South – 1 Centre.

Also, representatives of COFI’s Volunteer Medical Corps UK are also part of the ongoing drive to share the best practices for safe blood donation and use, as well as encouraging more participation.

Since inception, Trauma Care International Foundation has been focused on the mission to improve the health status and life expectancy of local communities, nations and regions by promoting improved trauma care and emergency response services.











			
			Post Views: 
			96