Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 general elections, has vowed not to abandon Senator Ademola Adeleke after the Supreme Court judgment on the Osun State governorship election.
Atiku in a statement sent to National Daily declared that the end has not come for Senator Adeleke but rather the beginning of his rising, which the former vice president said is only being delayed. He commended the people of Osun State for acceptance of the PDP and massive support of the party’s candidates.
Atiku in the statement declared: “I join with people of goodwill all over Nigeria to say to Senator Ademola Adeleke, and the people of the great state of Osun, that we stand with them in good times and in difficult days.

“The Supreme Court has ruled and because of its judicial finality, the legal case is over. However, the love, acceptance and endorsement that the people of Osun bestowed on both Senator Adeleke and the Peoples Democratic Party is not over and cannot be overlooked.

“Those who think this is the end of the road for Senator Adeleke and the Peoples Democratic Party in Osun, are greatly mistaken. This is not the end. Not even the beginning of the end. No. Today marks the continued ascendancy of Senator Adeleke and his party in the hearts and minds of his people.

“They had expected that the progress and development that the Adeleke family had consistently brought to Osun will be translated to their governance. That hope is not dead; only delayed.

“I extend my right hand of brotherhood to Senator Adeleke in all his future endeavours and I assure the good people of the state of Osun that the Peoples Democratic Party remembers their love and acceptance and will never forget to stand by them no matter the situation.

“Finally, I urge the nation’s judiciary to take a pulse of the nation and reflect on it. In their hands, God has placed a great responsibility. The duty to ensure that justice is done, irrespective of the pressure to do otherwise, by the powers that be.”










			
			Post Views: 
			78