Senator Ademola Adeleke, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the September 2018 governorship election in Osun State, has expressed that he is not desperate to be Governor of Osun State, emphasizing that he fought a good fight for democratic cause. The Senator, therefore, congratulated Governor Gboyega Oyetola on his victory at the Supreme Court on Friday.
National Daily learned that Senator Adeleke acknowledged that he is not satisfied with the judgment of the Supreme Court but he has accepted the judgment as a law abiding citizens and a democrat.
Senator Adeleke in a statement by Olawale Rasheed, his media Aide, admitted that the judgement of the Supreme Court is final irrespective of his reservations.
The senator stated that his ambition to be governor in Osun State is never a “do-or-die affair”.
“As a democrat and law-abiding citizen, I accept the ruling no matter my misgivings.
“I wish Governor Oyetola well in the governance of Osun State. In all circumstances, we must thank God Almighty. “We gallantly fought a good fight in pursuance of a democratic cause. The ideals we fought for lives on.
“Our ambition was never a do-or-die affair. We aspired to serve and deliver democratic dividends to the people of Osun State. Our ambition was altruistic. We wish Governor Oyetola the best in the governance of the state,” Adeleke declared.
The Governorship Election Petition Tribunal, Osun State, had upturned the INEC declaration of Oyetola winner of the governorship election in the state but the Court of Appeal reversed the judgment while was ultimately upheld by the Supreme Court in a majority judgment of three justices against two justice affirming Governor Oyetola winner of the Osun State governorship election in 2018.
Justice Bode Rhodes-Vivour delivering judgement on Friday had held that the appeal court was right to set aside the entire proceedings of the tribunal.
The judge said the failure of J. Obiora, a member of Tribunal, to attend proceedings on February 6 rendered the judgement a “nullity.”
The judge also said the certified true copy (CTC) was not signed by Obiora. He, therefore, dismissed Adeleke’s appeal.
 
 










			
			Post Views: 
			90