By Olanrewaju Adesanya

The Deputy Commissioner of Police and Commander of Rapid Response Squad Lagos, Mr. Olatunji Disu, has urged Human Resources managers in various organizations to be proactive in forestalling unwholesome practices which can jeopardize safety and security in work places.


Disu gave the charge while delivering a lecture titled; ‘The Role of HR In Workplace Security’,at the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management (CIPM) Ikeja chapter’s quarterly meeting held at the conference room of the Guinness Nigeria Limited.

The police chief cited the need for HR managers to ingrain in all staffers the safety precautions and security tips to mitigate any hazards and threat to security at the work place.

According to most of the HR moves are reactive instead of being proactive, he hinted that core staffers should trained to understand their roles in ensuring a secured and safe working environment.

“The Human Resources managers should be proactive rather than been reactive,they should guard against having loop holes and lapses that could explored by criminally minded individuals, which may put the organization at risk.

” HR been the internal safety and security official in the organization need to act on the views of the employees right on time,it should not be glossed over.

“All the staffers must have the safety and security culture ingrained in them,they must know that a safe and secured working environment can only be possible through their collective responsibility”,DCP Disu affirms.

He however, affirmed that Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) is a special unit that need be bolstered so as to ensure that core security functions are performed seamlessly.

The CIPM also presented a plague to DCP Disu for his selfless response to security issues.

The Ikeja CIPM chairman, Reverend Olakanmi Amoo-Onidundun while in a chat with newsmen after the parley harps on the need for HR managers to double efforts, in ensuring that their organizations don’t fall prey to competitors and fraudsters, whose stalk in trade is to capitalize on their laxities to frustrate business plans for their rival companies to thrive.

” When the orientation,unburdening and induction process is a one off thing then there will be lapses and loop holes.

“It should be a culture and ongoing re-sensitization of people,knowing fully well that this thing if not attended to might lead to grievous loss,litigation and  financial implications for the organization, it can even lead to closure  of business.

“HR being the champion of health,safety and security in work places should take proactive action in forestalling such negative repercussions for the organization.” Olakanmi said.

Mr. Sunday Abegunde a internal safety expert in Guinness  was on hand for an induction session for all those present at the meeting to guard against hazard on site













			
			Post Views: 
			98