The presidential candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC) in the 2019 general elections, Omoyele Sowore, at the weekend, protested the judgment of Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja on Friday, noting that legal scholars expressed dissatisfaction with the judgment they described as strange and shocking verdict. The AAC leader agitated that the ‘sponsored’ suit brought by Leonard Nzenwa in his desperate and dubious bid to hijack the African Action Congress (AAC) for insatiable and pecuniary gains.
In a statement sent to National Daily, the AAC leadership complained that Justice Ekwo in his judgment on Friday held that Leonard was entitled to the reliefs he sought on the ground that his suit was “uncontested”. “This is despite the robust legal defence of Mr. Omoyele Sowore and Dr. Malcolm Fabiyi with a 65-page Counter Affidavit and 12 Exhibits deposed on their behalf by Dr. Joshua Adeoye, the Deputy National Secretary of the AAC,” the party protested.

Sowore, leading that Take it Back Movement, declared that “this judgement is a clear miscarriage of justice and runs counter to long established principles of law on affidavit evidence.”
The party leadership observed that Leonard Nzenwa was escorted by security men and accompanied to the court on Friday by associates and supporters of Governor Nyesom Wike and members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers State.
“The totality of these abnormalities is that the AAC has been wickedly and fraudulently hijacked through questionable judicial processes with the primary aim of frustrating the election petition against Governor Wike and the PDP in Rivers State.

“We urge the leadership of the Nigerian Judiciary to salvage the judiciary from political interference and corruption.
“While this might be a judgement for villainy, it is does not speak for the majority of the members of the African Action Congress party. We have already instructed our lawyers to immediately appeal against the judgements. This is another injustice we must fight and fight it, we shall,” the statement declared.











			
			Post Views: 
			21