Reactions have continued to trail the gruesome murder of Mrs. Funke Olakunrin, daughter of Afenifere leader, Pa Reuben Fasoranti, who was murdered last Friday by suspected herdsmen along akure-Ore road, in Ondo State.

Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila, in a statement on Sunday in Abuja, by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Lanre Lasisi, described the killing “as shocking.”

“This sad event is a huge dent on the efforts of the Federal Government aimed at securing the lives and property of Nigerians. It is my belief that this would not dampen the spirit of government to rid the country of all forms of crime,” he said.

Gbajabiamila, added that since security is a cardinal focus of the 9th House of Representatives, members are determined to provide all the legislative support to the federal government to rid the country of crimes and criminalities.

He urged security agencies not to be deterred but to put in preventive measures as they try to bring the perpetrators of crimes to book.

Similarly, the Senate, on Sunday condoled with the family Pa Reuben Fasoranti, over the killing.

The Senate in a statement by its Ad-hoc Chairman on Media and Public Affairs, Sen. Adedayo Adeyeye, described the gruesome killing of the 58-year-old woman as very sad, devastating and a worrisome development.

Adeyeye said the Senate was disturbed by the spate of incessant attacks and wanton killings of citizens either by hired assassins, herdsmen, kidnappers and or other men of the underworld.

He said security of life was a fundamental right of every citizen, adding that Nigerians deserved their inalienable right from the government at all times.

Adeyeye, however, urged the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu to begin massive manhunt for the killers of Late Mrs Funke Olakunrin and ensure that the perpetrators of this gruesome killing are apprehended.

He said measures to prevent future occurrence of such incidence should be put in place by improving the security architecture on Nigeria’s highways, at social gatherings and at worship centres nationwide.

“The Senate further extends its condolences to the elder statesman, Pa Reuben Fasoranti and the entire family.

“We pray God will console and be with the entire family in this hour of bereavement,’’ Adeyeye said.









			
			Post Views: 
			134