The Lagos State Task Force on environment on a midnight enforcement operations arrested 77 suspected criminals, including prostitutes, who were on midnight crawling.
CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, Chairman of the Task Force, explained that the mid-night enforcement operations were responses to frequent outcries from residents of certain parts of the state which he said include Akowonjo, Egbeda, Shasha, Iyana-Ipaja, Ayobo and Abule-Oki over perennial criminal attacks. He reaffirmed that the task force is committed to total eradication of criminal hideouts in the state.
National Daily learned that Egbeyemi stated that the operations were done with approval of the state government and the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu.
He explained the operation will complement the efforts of the Commissioner of Police in Lagos State towards eradicating crimes and make criminals no longer have hiding places in any part of the state.
The task force chairman revealed that after the task force conducted thorough investigation of the suspects arrested in the midnight operations, 12 men and 26 prostitutes without proper identification were detained for prosecution while others were set free.
Report also indicated that Lagos State Government observing breach of security besieged the Alluminium Village at Dopemu axis of Agege.
Egbeyemi narrated: “A lot of criminal activities like rape, robbery and harbouring of criminals take place at ‘Alluminium Village’ on daily basis. We receive daily complaints about criminal activities at the area from residents/victims and, therefore, mobilised to dislodged the entire area to flushed out all criminals” he added that six members of dreadful ‘Awawa Cult Gang’ were arrested, while their leader, Tobi Akinsanya, a.k.a. ‘Scorpion’, recently released from prison was at large. He maintained that eth task force demolished illegal structures Awawa cult members and other criminals hibernate to perpetrate their nefarious activities on innocent citizens.

			
			Post Views: 
			155