An advocacy group, Africa Association of Professional Freight Forwarders and Logistic of Nigeria (APFFLON), has called on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to end insecurity on Lagos roads and extortion of patients in the general hospitals.
The National President, Frank Ogunojemite, who addressed a news conference at the weekend, said it was no longer news that hoodlums seize every opportunity to dispossess motorists of their belongings, especially when they are stuck in traffic.
Ogunojemite noted that the stress and inhuman conditions patients are subjected to in government-owned hospitals should also be looked into.
He said: “Important steps like the executive order on waste management, zero tolerance on pot holes, the riot act on traffic management, and above all, your urgent intervention in the perennial Apapa gridlock which has brought so much pains to port users and residents, these are indeed noble steps sir.
Commuters are being molested daily, even in the full glare of the public, and nothing happens. Therefore, it is very imperative to address insecurity to have a safer Lagos.
“Besides, the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) must rise to their responsibilities; they should tackle the insecurity on our roads as molestations and robberies have become the order of the day.”
ALSO READ: No pilgrim should abscond, Sanwo-Olu warns
Ogunojemite suggested that more LASTMA officials be recruited to ensure efficiency in traffic management as the current number cannot effectively control Lagos traffic.
He also appealed to the governor to ensure that motorcyclist be routinely checked to ensure they are mentally stable and drug free, and above all, professionally qualified to carry out such service.
The president also lamented that most health workers have no modicum of regard for patients, saying the difficulties they go through before medical attention is highly demoralising.
“To see doctors in these government hospitals become very difficult due to systemic corruption, in most cases only those who bribe them go in first for consultation while those who have no money are made to see the doctor last.
“We urge you to set up measures to address the extortion and misconduct as the system has been polluted,” Ogunojemite added.






			
			Post Views: 
			67