On 24th of June 2019, TOG teamed up with The Good Fathers Foundation to host the maiden edition of the SDG MEDIA ZONE AFRICA. The event was held at Oriental Hotel Lagos state Nigeria. It had in attendance, advocacy groups, Social Influencers, SDG Advocates, Top Chief Executives, Foundations, to mention but a few. The media zone is the first of its kind in Nigeria founded and by SDG Advocate Chukwuebuka Anyaduba.
The event was aimed at creating awareness, spurring actions and conversations on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) so as to have a practical recommendation on how to promote, create awareness and proffer solutions for scaling and the need for multi-sectorial approach to implementing the SDGs in Africa. Discussing the theme; SDG Implementation in Africa; Impacts & Scaling Success, the event provided a safe space for management with the issues and challenges to the action for the SDG, strengthening the understanding and need for domestication of SDG in Africa, and also reinforces the need for an urgent commitment from the international community in support of the 2030 agenda in Africa. The panelists present at the event were Former Chief Executive of Sahara Group and Former Member Private Sector Advisory Group on SDG, Mr Tonye Cole, Team Lead, The Future Project, Bukonla Adebakin, On air Media Personality, Beat FM and Managing Director Perception Media Mr. Olisa Adibua, Journalist and Founder, IDIA Project Miss Idia Aisen, Founder, The Good Fathers Foundation, Nnaedu Umeohia, Social Research enthusiast, Lecturer and Hybrid Development Strategist at African Development Studies Centre, Mr Tokunbo Olorundanmi, Imoh Eboh who is an Actress and a member of the World Economic Forum Global Shaper and Founder Adansonia Foundation and Kayode Oluokun
According to the keynote speaker, Mr Tonye Cole, every government establishment should have a clear deliverable policy for SDG so that its implementation can be visible and that as a matter of fact, there should be a ministry of SDG. It ended with a call to action.
Mr Anyaduba stated that the plan for SDG MEDIA ZONE AFRICA is to take it across different cities in Africa during major events.


			
			Post Views: 
			89