The 12-man panel set up by the House of Representatives to wade into the crisis rocking the  Bauchi State House of Assembly has begun reconciliatory efforts.
The committee, which is headed by Musa Sarkin Adar, began the collection of complaints from aggrieved lawmakers and critical stakeholders yesterday.
Speaking during a  visit on Governor Bala Muhammed by members of the panel, Adar said the House of Representatives has given them the mandate to look into the event that led to the state having “two Speakers” and the subsequent closure of the House for about a month.
He added that his committee members will gather information to help determine a resolution capable of bringing peace to the House.
“We are from different geopolitical zones, party lines and tribes. We promise to do justice to the issues of the parliament. Our concern is to make peace and consequently setting the state on progress lane.
“With these, we want all aggrieved members or any party to tender their displeasure, either recent or old testimony between today and Wednesday,” he said.
ALSO READ:Bauchi Governor, Bala Mohammed, assures on completion of abandoned Projects
Governor Muhammed, while reacting, said: “As parliamentarians, we are ashamed of the situation in the state, though politics is dynamic. Some of the democratisation comes with crisis. By this, we must always be loyal to the will of the people, we respect the autonomy of the parliament.
“What happened in Bauchi is very regrettable. But we are not going to preempt what you have come here for but give you all the support that is required. As far as we are concerned, there is only one House in Bauchi.
“The election has been conducted and I was the one who signed the proclamation and the election was held with the symbol of authority in the House not outside and within the timeline. Of course, some people were excluded. It is very sad for people who are representing different constituencies to be excluded from discharging their parliamentary exercise.
“We appreciate your coming. Definitely, some people have been expecting your arrival. My self and deputy are parliamentarians. We have been to the Senate and we are at the helms of affairs of Bauchi today.”
The two Speakers emerged at the Assembly during inauguration held on Thursday, June 20.
Thirteen out of 31 members of the House elected Abubakar Suleiman of  the All Progressives Congress (APC), representing Ningi Constituency, as Speaker.
Other 18 aggrieved APC lawmakers, who were outwitted, held a parallel election outside the chamber of the House to elect the former Speaker Kawuwa  Damina.















			
			Post Views: 
			90