The leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, on Tuesday, accused the National Leader of the All Progress Congress, APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu of painting the Igbos black because of his 2023 presidential ambition.

In a statement signed by Mazi Kanu, and made available to newsmen by IPOB’ Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, the IPOP leader and Director of Radio Biafra, stated that Tinubu disappointed and disgraced the noble Yoruba ancestry, by allowing his alleged self-centred avarice and ego to stifle the aspirations and destiny of his people.

The statement titled “Tinubu stop spreading anti-Igbo falsehood’ reads, “Tinubu, you cannot sacrifice the blood of your brethren on the shrine of your greed, conceit and unbridled 2023 presidential political ambition.

“I must remind you today that your Fulani masters will never do for you what you are slavishly doing for them. You know in your heart of hearts that murderous Fulani herdsmen are culpable in the brutal murder of a Yoruba daughter and that Igbos had no hand in the Ore Highway Massacre.

He said the fate of Afonja and loss of Illorin a Yoruba territory to the Fulani conquistadors in years gone by should have been a lesson, but it seems many are hell-bent on repeating the mistakes of the past.

Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, reminded the APC, leader that “to the Fulanis, he is another camouflage Muslim, a filthy infidel from the South, a contaminated version of Islam not worthy to be seen or regarded as an equal.”

“Have you ever wondered why no Yoruba Muslim including yourself, can never be allowed to lead a Jummat prayer in any mosque in the north? Because you, along with other Yoruba Muslim are not and can never be considered equal to your Fulani counterparts.

“Is it not a shame that Yorubas like yourself submit to the authority of the Sultan of Sokoto as the supreme leader of Muslims in Nigeria in perpetuity, yet no Yoruba man will ever occupy that throne. So you see, you will remain their slave forever and ever.

“Quislings in the service of Fulani Caliphate abound in Igboland too, but we continue to expose, ridicule and sanction them because we are ever conscious of the consequences of their actions on present and future generations.

“The Fulani killing machine you serve so slavishly will continue to Taqiyya you and dangle the fruit of a false presidential promise.”





			
			Post Views: 
			522