The embattled national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, who has been imposing his godfather status on Edo State politics, is beginning to push his political warfare with Governor Godwin Obaseki over the APC ticket for the 2020 governorship election beyond the boundary of partisan politicking. National Daily gathered that the former Edo State and APC national chairman is allegedly plotting the impeachment of Governor Obaseki by selected APC lawmakers in the Edo State House of Assembly in demonstration of his antagonistic extremism.
National Daily inquiry into the crisis in Edo State unveiled that Oshiomole purportedly lured 10 APC members of the Edo State House of Assembly to commence impeachment proceedings against Governor Obaseki. The lawmakers were allegedly hosted to a meeting at Oshiomhole’s residence in Abuja on Tuesday where they reached resolution for the governor’s impeachment.
The 10 legislators, at the alleged meeting made the resolution that Governor Obaseki is no longer fit to continue to carry out his functions as Edo State Governor and, therefore, moved a motion for his immediate impeachment. They listed nine impeachable offences against Governor Obaseki in a document allegedly signed by the 10 lawmakers, dated July 9th, 2018.
The alleged impeachment document read: “Edo State House of Assembly: Members Resolution – …it resolved that this honourable house has no confidence in the government of His Excellency, Godwin Obaseki, to effectively carry out the duties of his office throughout the remainder of his tenure and, hereby, moves the motion for the immediate impeachment of the governor based on the following grounds:
1.        Sabotaging the activities of the legislature by actively preventing the legal swearing in of elected members of the State House of Assembly;
2.        Masterminding an attack on elected members of the House of Assembly;
3.        Masterminding the unlawful swearing in of selected members of the State Assembly to further his personal agenda without the knowledge of the grand majority of the members-elect;
4.        Acts of severe intimidation, bribery and high handedness;
5.        Gross insubordination towards the All Progressives Congress, her chairman and the very ideals that make up this great party;
6.        Lack of transparency in the awarding of government contracts;
7.        Mismanagement of state funds;
8.        Gross incompetence especially in the areas of security, job creation and rural development;
9.        Establishment of State agencies without due consent and approval from the House of Assembly.
Dated this 9th day of July 2019.
“Sponsors:
1.        Rt. Hon. Edoror Victor Sabor
2.        Hon. Saed Aliyu Oshiomhole
3.        Chief Ojiezele Osezua Sunday
4.        Barr. Vincent Osas Uwadiae
5.        Osifo Osa  Washington
6.        Hon. Sunday Aghedo
7.        Hon. Okaeben Ewere Christopher
8.        Hon. Crosby Eribo
9.        Hon. Okunbor Nosayaba
10.   Hon. Onaiwu Dumez”
The document of the purported impeachment was contained in an APC layout paper but with the Edo State House   of Assembly head.
National Daily further gathered that 14 of the 24 members of the Edo State House of Assembly are core loyalists of Governor Obaseki. To impeach the governor, the lawmakers would need 2/3 majority of the 24 members of the House. Invariably, legal impeachment of Governor Obaseki would require 16 lawmakers to be binding and enforced.  There are indications that the 10 legislators, except they make deep overtures and lobby to depopulate the 14 lawmakers loyal to Governor Obaseki, may be on a suicide mission.
Meanwhile, National Daily learned that the two chambers of the National Assembly have commenced investigations into the crisis rocking the Edo State House of Assembly.















			
			Post Views: 
			276