By Olanrewaju Adesanya
A Lagos lawmaker, Hon. Rasheed Makinde has disclosed that the former Governor of Osun state being an experience engineer with a developmental pedigree affirmed in Lagos  and Osun state,will be the best option in the Works and Housing ministry at the federal level.
Hon. Makinde who represents Ifako Ijaiye II constituency at the Lagos State House of Assembly made this assertion while in a chat with National Daily.
He said, “Aregbesola remains an enigma and he has proven that while he was being screened at the senate yesterday,I am sure he would be our best hand in charge of the Ministry of Works and Housing because he has what it takes to turn things around,having been a down to earth person and a democrat,a selfless personality by all parameters of view.
“I know he would sail through the scrutiny at the senate,his nomination by President Mohammadu Buhari is well thought out and a worthwhile one, he deserves it through any ramifications you want to view it.
“He has been a vanguard for the emancipation of good governance,he is a social crusader, a progressive minded leader who sees every opportunity as a challenge that he need to really put in his best.
“He was once a commissioner in Lagos State, his foot print is still there for many generation to come,aside that he became governor of Osun state with a lot of sweat, struggle to attain the height and unfortunately for the state of Osun,the state is ranked 33 among the states whose federal allocation is the lowest and their IGR is really nothing to rely upon.
“In spite of all this obstacles,more importantly during his tenure as Governor the Nigeria monolithic economy suffered a downturn,the crash in the price of crude oil which is the mainstay of our economy added to his challenges,this man still made effort to bring in laudable projects to the state.
“A comparison of Osun prior to his emergence as Governor and now,speaks volume of his capability from Osogbo down to other major parts of Osun,he has revolutionalized the state,in the education, agricultural and other sectors of human development.
“In fact amongst all other nominees,he is the only one reported to have been cheered by a mammoth crowd at his return to the country recently,it shows he is a man of impact and acceptability both within and outside the state of Osun.
“He would perform in any ministry he is assigned but by Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola’s profession and passion, I think he has the magic wand to turn around Works and Infrastructure or Housing ministry will be good for him,if the office is given to him he would excel,due his versatility, talk of any field he has core knowledge about it to put up a better argument at any point been a well read person always ready for challenge at any time,”. Makinde affirmed.
Commenting on Aregbesola’s move at fostering national unity, Makinde said he is a dynamic person,who has been ensuring stability in the Southwest polity,especially amongst the Yoruba race and that informs why Tinubu cannot leave him,because he is a mobilizer and stabilizer.






			
			Post Views: 
			565