APC’s Hon Abdulmumin Jibrin representing the Bebeji /Kiru LGA  has been suspended at his ward for alleged anti-party activities. And the national headquarters may soon approve of his expulsion.
Jibrin has been making headlines since he was not counted among House committee chairmen Rt.Hon Femi Gbajabiamila appointed last week—though Jibrin worked his tail off as campaign director for the election of Gbajabiamila as Speaker.
A statement signed by the Chairman of the APC in Bebeji Local Government,  Sulaiman Sabo Gwarmai, said Jibrin was suspended after confirming that he carried out various anti-party activities contrary to the provision of the party’s constitution.
A petition was actually brought against him.
A seven-man committee the party set up found him guilty, and then recommended his indefinite suspension.
The statement urged the state APC executive to recommended to the national executive for the expulsion of Kofa from the party.
“Upon a petition received by the APC executive committee of Bebeji Local Government, a seven man committee was inaugurated to investigate all the issues raised by the petitioner,’ the statement read.
“ After a thorough investigation the Committee submitted its report and recommendations to the Local Government executive which subsequently met and adopt as follows:
“ That having confirmed various anti-party activities by Hon. Abdulmuminu Jibrin Kofa which was found contrary to some provisions of the party’s constitution, ranging from article 21, paragraph A (ii) (V)
“And (Vii) the executive committee adopted the report and hereby suspended Hon. Kofa with immediate effect for 12 months.
“That the executive committee also adopted the committee’s recommendation urging the state Executive committee to recommend to the national executive the immediate expulsion of Hon. Abdulmuminu Jibrin Kofa from the party for various offenses.”
The LGA chapter made a similar attempt to expel him some years ago—for alleged anti-party activities.
While speculations mount that Jibrin and Gbajabiamila are not in good terms, the Speaker explained all was well—that Jibrin was just no longer excited being a rep, let alone a committee chairman.

			
			Post Views: 
			812