Mobile phones which only functioned as a means of placing calls conveniently have now grown to become a big part of the daily life of users. Mobile phones have now evolved to become smart, as we now call them ‘smartphones’. Today, about 2.71bn people own a smartphone globally.
The smartphone ownership paradigm is, however, shifting from the latest specs and hardware to actual device experience over time. More users long for devices with OS upgrades, ensuring they benefit from all the latest software features, ensuring their phone experience will keep getting better over time.
Choosing a smartphone that can stand its ground in the face of increasing cyber security threats is important too. Surprisingly, more than half of Android devices are running a version of Android older than two years, ‎meaning they face potential vulnerabilities through lack of updates.
Nokia phones have evolved over time and now provide the best and most secure Android experience to fans, with the promise to deliver the latest version of Android and 3 years of monthly security updates for each and every smartphone, making sure you can enjoy your device with complete peace of mind.
Here are three ways your Nokia Smartphone keeps on getting better with time:
Pure Android and Regular Software Updates Story
All Nokia smartphones come out of the box with a pure version of Android that delivers the best experience possible; bringing you Android, just as google designed it to be. They also provide you with two years of Android platform upgrades. All Nokia smartphones from the Nokia 3 can be updated with the latest Android 9 Pie.
AI Innovation Story
Your phone should adapt to you, and Nokia smartphones learn more and last longer. With software that leverages the power of artificial intelligence and features.  Adaptive Battery learns how you use your device and prioritizes battery power for apps and services you care about, minimizing battery consumption. Adaptive Brightness also actively learns how you set brightness and automatically adjusts for power efficiency, saving battery life and a whole lot of fiddling.
The Google Assistant and the Google Assistant Button Story
The Google Assistant is always ready to help. The more you use it, the more useful it gets. From planning your day to directions home, there is also a dedicated Google Assistant Button to make it even easier to access on the go – all using just your voice.
The newly released Nokia 3.2 and Nokia 4.2 come with a dedicated Google assistant button, so whether at home or on-the-go, the dedicated Google Assistant Button helps get things done, just a press away.
Over the past two years Nokia phones have received over 300 security updates, and with almost the entire portfolio now running the latest Android 9 Pie. Ensuring the experience keeps getting better with time.

			
			Post Views: 
			117