Leader of the pan Biafran group, Biafra Zionist Federation (BZM), Benjamin Onwuka has been released from prison.
Onwuka was arrested on August 20, 2018 in Enugu during an agitation. He was kept incommunicado for several months.
He was later transferred to Owerri Prisons from where he was released on July 1.
Addressing journalists shortly after he arrived at Enugu, Onwuka said he had become more strengthened in his push for Biafra. He said with the support of the United States, his inauguration as Biafra President would hold on July 30 at the Michael Okpara Square, Enugu.
Onwuka also claimed that while in detention, he met with President Muhammadu Buhari, and he told the President there was no going back on Biafra.
He said: “I am happy to inform our people that our victory is here. I have always said they cannot stop us. They took me on August 20, 2018, and dumped me at an underground cell in Aso Drive, Abuja. I spent three months and four days inside that terrible place.
ALSO READ:Buhari support organisations hold thanksgiving
“Throughout that period, I was fed with a slice of bread in the morning, a spoon of rice in the afternoon, and few lobes of semovita at the night. From there, I was taken to Owerri prison where I spent seven months, before I was finally released on July 1.
“The craziest part of it is that I was not charged of anything. When they brought me before the court in Owerri, the judge said I jumped earlier bail granted to me. But I wonder how someone held inside an underground cell jumped bail.
“However, all that is now history; we are marching forward and that is why I am asking all Biafrans to turn out en-masse for the inauguration of Biafra government.”
On claims that he met Buhari while in detention, Onwuka said: “At the meeting facilitated by the US, I told Buhari that there was no going back on Biafra. I chronicled all the injustice and marginalization Biafrans are facing, and made him understand that Biafra is a different entity and has nothing to do with Nigeria.”
The Zionists leader, who equally spoke on the controversial Ruga proposal, warned that such would not be tolerated in any of the ‘Biafra areas’.
“The Nigeria government should limit its Ruga, or whatever they call it to 10 states of Zamfara, Kebbi, Sokoto, Katsina, Jigawa, Kano, Bauchi, Gombe, Borno and Yobe. Any other place outside these 10 is a no-go-area.
“We are sending this clear warning because this is nothing but another push towards the realization of the on-going islamisation agenda in the country.”



			
			Post Views: 
			84