The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has again thrown a jibe at President Muhammadu Buhari over a statement credited to him that the lacks of jobs for the youths has made kidnapping a new occupation for youths.
In a statement on Tuesday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party again accused President Muhammadu Buhari of not having solutions to the problems plaguing the nation.
The statement said, “This self-confession by Mr. President is equally an admission that he has no solutions, and points to the ugly situation that would continue to confront the nation, if the stolen presidential mandate is not retrieved in the courts.
“Is it not appalling that at a time when other world leaders are leading their youths to constructive and productive ventures and developing their nations, Nigerian youths are being pushed into situations of anger, frustration and recourse to criminality?”
“Under President Buhari, our national economy has continued to slide; over 30 million Nigerians have lost their jobs and basic means of livelihood; businesses have continued to shut down; cost of essential goods and services have persistently soared, while purchasing power of citizens worsens.
ALSO READ: Yar’Adua, an advocate of rule of law, says Atiku
“It is more disheartening that instead of finding solutions, Mr. President resorted to rhetoric and begging the question to the extent of describing criminality as a new occupation and a business”.
“Moreover, Nigerians were shocked at President Buhari’s insensitivity to the victims of the bloodlettings, kidnapping, banditry and other acts of violence in the country when he trivialized and made a joke of the insecurity in the land by stating that losing weight is a sign that the Inspector General of Police, Adamu Mohammed, was effectively tackling the security issues.
“It is most heartbreaking that at the time President Buhari was making a joke on the security situation, bandits were having a field day in communities in Zamfara State where they reportedly killed over 50 Nigerians, while many more compatriots are still held hostage by kidnappers in forests in various parts of our country.
“Such attitude to governance, especially on issues that have to do with the lives of Nigerians, is completely unacceptable and must be condemned by all,” the statement added.







			
			Post Views: 
			67