Former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode on Sunday blasted former Governor of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido for criticising former President Olusegun Obasanjo over his comment that Boko Haram and herdsmen were fighting to islamise Nigeria.

He said only those who supported such idea would criticise the ex-president.“Why should Sule be upset about Obasanjo exposing Boko Haram? His comments were directed at Boko Haram and their agenda. Is Sule a closet member of Boko Haram now? If he wants to continue to defend Boko Haram he should continue.

“For anybody from the core north to call Obasanjo names for speaking the truth and baring his mind over what is unfolding in Nigeria today tells you how blinded by power, insensitive and callous some of these people are. It is only those that subscribe to the Fulanisation and Islamisation agenda that will criticise or oppose Obasanjo’s observation and describe him as “a bigot” for making them,” he said.

Fani-Kayode in a statement on his Facebook wall said what Obasanjo said was timely and necessary and that millions were commending him for it., saying that he spoke the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.

He stated that Obasanjo remained the only politically active southern and Middle Belt leader who understood what was really going on, the grave danger that “we are in and what lies ahead. He is deeply courageous and his latest contribution that there is an agenda to Fulanise West Africa and Islamise Africa says it all.”
ALSO READ: Lamido lambasts Obasanjo
“Afenifere, OPC, YOLICOM, PANDEM, MEND, the Middle Belt Forum, the Niger Delta Avengers, IPOB, MASSOB and Ohaeneze saw it in 2017 and they told the world. The Christian Elders Forum, CAN and the Church saw it in 2018 and they told the world.

“Sadly the world refused to listen, left us on our own and, instead of rising to the occasion and confronting the evil, Nigerians went on bended knee to the powers that be and acted as if they were not saddled with a major problem that was bound to eventually consume them all. Now they know better even though most of them are still in denial,” he added.

Fani-Kayode said now they must live with the consequences of their indifference, ignorance, cowardice and stoicism. What a pity. It is a tragedy of monumental proportions that a nation that is so blessed with extraordinary human and mineral resources should end up going this way.”








			
			Post Views: 
			86