The Inspector General of Police, Muhammed Adamu, has warned operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), Anti-kidnapping Squad and other special units that any officer involved in extra-judicial killings and abuse of power risks losing his job and facing criminal prosecution.

Adamu who stated this on Thursday at interactive session with officers’ in-charge of Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), Anti-Kidnapping Squad and other special units in Abuja, also added that line supervisors of such erring officers shall also be held liable for supervisory negligence be similarly sanctioned.

While commending the officers for their courage and sacrifice in the fight against crimes, Mohammed said their sense of commitment to duty, and professional competence in this instance remain critical to the ability of the Police to prevent or optimally respond to these crimes.

“It has become imperative to have this interactive session with you because of the need to address concerns on the rising rate of armed robberies, kidnappings, banditry and other violent crimes in the country.


“For the avoidance of doubt, it is our sole responsibility as the lead internal security agency to make the country safe for all citizens, and this is your purview as field officers directly charged with the mandate of addressing the threat of kidnapping and armed robbery. Your performance,

“Within this context, we must also address issues touching on the abuse of powers, misuse of firearms and other extra-judicial actions by personnel in your Units. Let me re-emphasise here, once again, that our primary responsibility is to protect the lives and property of the citizens we were engaged to serve.

“This is a sacred duty and no level of justification should underscore our being engaged in any act that negates this responsibility. Indeed, these unprofessional actions have led to lack of confidence and trust in the Police, and this impact on our crime prevention capacity.”

The Police, however, expressed appreciation to officers, advising them to always highlight challenges confronting them in the line of their duties so that authorities can deliberate on how to alleviate some of the challenges.

“We shall soon fully resuscitate, re-organize and expand the operations of the ‘Safer Highway Patrol’ Scheme. This is with intent to enhance visibility policing within the public space and particularly, at vulnerable areas across the country.

“We are also exploring the concept of Safer City where CCTV technology will be optimally engaged to support our operations. In addition, we are exploring the possibility of establishing a National Crime Analysis Centre which will be engaged in the collation, analysis and dissemination of criminal intelligence to support your operations.

He also called on the support of Nigerians in the fight against crimes, assuring the citizens of the resolve of the Police in ensuring the safety of their lives and property.





			
			Post Views: 
			6