Plots against Emefiele’s





There are emerging innuendoes that the national leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is not comfortable with the decision of President Muhammadu Buhari to re-appoint Godwin Emefiele for another term of five years as the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). U
Unfortunately, nothing could be done to stop the confirmation of Emefiele by the Senate after the re-nomination and transmission of the name to the National Assembly for approval by President Buhari. The APC national leader was alleged to be furious over the process, particularly, after certain individuals alleged to be nominated by him lost the appointment.
Certain report indicated that Tinubu and his group allegedly listed some names for the nomination of one of them as successor to Emefiele. The purported nominees of the Lagos political godfather were identified to allegedly include Babatunde Fowler, Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS); Dr. Adedoyin Salami, former member of the CBN’s Monetary Policy Committee; Fola Adeola, former Managing Director of GT Bank, and Bimbo Ashiru, a former Commissioner for Commerce in Ogun State.
The former Lagos State Governor was also said to have allegedly engaged some sections of the social media to launch salvo on the CBN Governor, Emefiele.
ALSO READ: Buhari in Lagos : ‘Tinubu is an Enemy to Yoruba race’
The report further indicated that the purported renewed attack on Emefiele is coming after two previous unsuccessful efforts were made to remove the CBN Governor from office through suspension while President Buhari was on medical vacation in London, the United Kingdom. Loyalists to President Buhari were, however, said to have frustrated the plot to remove
Emefiele was said to have been attacked over allegations of illicit foreign exchange transactions.
The President’s loyalists were said to be conscious of the power tussle in the ruling APC, thus, being at alert that whenever Tinubu is making demands for appointment slots, essentially, sensitive positions, he is suspected to be seeking personal advantage or seeking to undermine President Buhari. They were said to be citing the emergence of the APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, and the mountain of crises that the party carried into the 2019 general elections as a typical example.
Meanwhile, both President Buhari and Tinubu were Saudi Arabia for the Hajj, and were together when some political and traditional leaders from Nigeria visited the president in Saudi where they felicitated in the breaking their fast on Monday.








			
			Post Views: 
			311