The State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Osun, on Monday raised alarm over alleged plot to harm Senator Ademola Adeleke, candidate of the party, and ‘governor-elect’ in the 2018 governorship election in Osun State. The State Party linked the Police and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the alleged plot.
PDP State Chairman in Osun, Soji Adagunodo, in a statement on Monday alerted Nigerians and the International community to hold the Nigeria Police and the All Progressive Congress responsible if anything tragic happens to the PDP governorship candidate and current Senator, Ademola Adeleke.
The State Chairman, Soji Adagunodo, accordingly, protested the arrest of Adeleke on Monday by the Police in Abuja.
Adagunodo contested that the arrest of the Osun Governorship candidate who recently won an Election petition and declared as the rightful winner of the September 22, 2018, Governorship election is a clear case of political desperation taken too far by the Police which is obviously executing a script of the APC.
The Osun State PDP Chairman maintained that the arrest is fuelling speculation of an attempt to put Senator Adeleke in harmful condition to prevent him from conclusively retrieving the mandate freely given to him by the people of Osun State.
The State PDP noted that the Public should recall that Senator Adeleke has an urgent Medical need which made a Federal High Court, sitting in Abuja order that his International passport be released to him to travel abroad for immediate medical attention.
The State Chairman noted that the Court also ordered that the Senator should return to Nigeria by the first week of June to answer whatever charges the Police claim that they have against him.
The State PDP then wondered why the Police would arrest and frustrate an urgent medical trip of a citizen who has never shunned any Police summon or jumped bail in any of the trumped up charges against him in the courts of the land.
ALSO READ: Dancing Senator Adeleke arrested, detained
The State Chairman protested: “It should interest members of the public to know that the offence for which the Police has again arrested and detained Senator Adeleke are based on the same facts which competent courts of the land are currently handling, including, an ongoing appeal against a judgement of an FCT High Court in Bwari.
“It is also a matter to be taken serious note of that the citizen in question has been declared the Governor-elect of a State by a competent tribunal and is currently defending that judicial victory at the Court of Appeal.
“The PDP is by this statement, calling on well meaning Nigerians, Civil Society and Human rights community to intervene in the serial, vicious and clearly unjustifiable oppression of Senator Ademola Adeleke by the powers that have been using the Nigeria Police as a tool.”
The State Party, therefore, demanded President Muhammadu Buhari “to call the Inspector General of Police to order and urge him to refrain from ongoing attempts to frustrate a valid court order which has granted Senator Ademola Adeleke permission to travel abroad for his medicals.”
 
 
 








			
			Post Views: 
			83