As northern Youths kick

Following the rising tension in Zamfara State as the Supreme Court gets set to deliver judgment on the All Progressives Congress (APC) elections conflicts, the State Governor, Abdul’aziz Yari, was ion Saudi Arabia during the lesser hajj to beg President Muhammadu Buhari to save the APC at the apex court. Sources close to the Presidency told National Daily that the Zamfara State Governor joined other eminent Nigerians, who included APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and others, to visit the President during the Hajj in Saudi Arabia to allegedly lobby for president’s use of the federal might to intervene and save the Zamfara APC from defeat in the anticipated judgement of the Supreme Court on Friday. Our source, however, said that President Buhari did not give the governor outright word of support but told him that he should learn to do what is right at all time.
Meanwhile, the Northern Youths Movement (NYM) on Monday accused Governor Abdul’aziz Yari of abandoning the people of the State traveling to Saudi Arabia to plot manipulation of the Supreme Court judgment on the dispute over the validity of primary elections in state where towe factions nominated candidates for the 2019 general elections.
National Daily learned that the youths alleged that the governor is relying on legal technicalities to win the case; adding that he travelled to Saudi Arabia to persuade President Buhari to give as condition, the confirmation of the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Mohammed, to the victory of the Yari APC faction in Zamfara in the Friday judgment.
National Daily further gatehrfed that the NYM in a statement in Abuja on Monday, signed by its Chairman, Mallam Ishaya Jato, lamented that it was painful that what was paramount to Governor Yari was the installation of his stooge as Governor of Zamfara State at the expense of established authorities of the Supreme Court on cases similar to that of the State APC, and not the protection of the people of the State who are being killed daily.
The NYM declared” “While Governor Yari ran to Saudi Arabia (uninvited) to prevail on President Buhari to intervene and force the Acting CJN to legalise his illegal primary election by giving judgment in his favour on Friday, May 24, 2019, his subjects are being murdered in their numbers.
ALSO READ: Yahaya Bello under fire again
“About 48 hours ago, armed bandits killed at least 17 people at three villages in Birnin Magaji Local Government Area of Zamfara State.
“Obviously, Governor Yari does not care what happens to his people, all he is after is to continue to squander public funds and become a Senator of the Federal Republic.
“The Supreme Court, especially the Justice Mohammed Tanko must therefore act in the interest of the people of Zamfara that are being killed daily by rejecting overtures from Governor Yari and give judgment in accordance with their conscience, the law and the will of Allah.”

			
			Post Views: 
			106