He has already spent € 50M on Militao but he lacks the main names on the list: Pogba, Hazard, Eriksen, Ndombele and Jovic … He is looking for solutions for a summer that will be very expensive.
If Real Madrid wants to complete its ambitious project for 2019-20 it will have to spend about 540 million euros on signings. The club and Zidane have identified the goals (Pogba, Hazard, Eriksen, Ndombele and Jovic) that will join a footballer already signed that will join in summer: Militao (21 years).
Madrid knows that the most expensive and complicated signing will be that of Pogba (26). According to information from the British Press, United will ask for 150M € for French. By Hazard (28), Chelsea wants 112M € although it ends contract in 2020, the same situation as Eriksen (27). In his case, and although AS reported that Tottenham intends to enter more than € 100M, the white club estimates its value at € 85M, taking into account that it is not a world top-10 like Hazard. However, the price of Danish could rise if it manages to go back to Ajax and be planted in the final of the Champions, a planetary showcase …
ALSO READ:How Maradona helped crown Messi as the free kick king- Argentina fitness Coach
To these three names we must add the one from Ndombele (22), for which Lyon would want € 80M, and Jovic (21). As this newspaper published on April 19, talks by the Serbian striker are advanced and their cost is € 60M. The total for the five amounts to € 487M, to which must be added what was paid by Militao (€ 50M). Almost 540 million euros …
Break the piggy bank …
A considerable investment that would exceed what was spent on 23 signings in the last five years (€ 453M). To face a summer of this caliber, Madrid will have to pull several resources. On the one hand, the funds in cash (150M €, according to the club’s accounts), on the other what it manages to enter for the sale of footballers (Bale, James, Kovacic …) and all this will join the new contract with Adidas, It will be announced shortly and will report to the entity more than € 100M per year.
But you will need more funds. It would also apply to request new bank loans, which would be added to the already granted loan of € 575M for the new Bernabéu, although the club achieved a three-year grace period, so it will not have to start returning it until 2022. An oxygen ball without the one that could not face the two great fronts in which it has gotten involved: profoundly remodel the workforce and start the works of the stadium.

			
			Post Views: 
			73