Accuses him of desperation 





The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has fired back on the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) over his repugnant comments against the opposition party during his visit to President Muhammadu Buhari in Saudi Arabia.
The PDP in a statement in Abuja by Kola Ologbondiyan, National Publicity Secretary, berated the self-styled leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, for resorting to hauling insults against the PDP to curry political relevance, ostensibly for his selfish pecuniary interests.
The National Publicity Secretary in the statement declared: “by traveling to faraway Mecca, at this Ramadan period, just to meet President Muhammadu Buhari and engage in gossips, invective and diatribes against the PDP, Asiwaju Tinubu has further demonstrated that he has nothing to offer towards the development of our nation.”
The PDP argued: “It is atrocious that at the time other leaders are in the Holy Land offering prayers and supplications for our nation, Asiwaju Tinubu is in Mecca for photo-ops, playing dirty politics and hauling insults at other Nigerians just to curry relevance before President Buhari.”
The National Publicity Secretary was of the view that that nothing but sheer hypocrisy would push Tinubu to engage in unholy praises of a failed administration in a desperation to avert the purported threats by certain agents of the Buhari Presidency to expose him.
ALSO READ: Buhari’s men worried about Tinubu ambition
“This is the same Asiwaju Tinubu, who, in January 2018, at the 15th Annual Daily Trust Dialogue, berated the Buhari administration for its nepotism, incompetence, corrupt oil subsidy regime; blaming it for the high-level poverty in our country and counseled Nigerians to be guided by their conscience in electing leaders in the 2019 general elections.
“Asiwaju, in criticizing the Buhari administration held rightly that “too much political and economic power resides in the hands of too few. This result in a society described by too much of unemployment, inadequate infrastructure, too little food, yet too much poverty,” PDP stated.
The PDP further stated that Tinubu then added correctly that under President Buhari, “rather than becoming a joyous nation, Nigeria has become a cruel playground where the fears and concerns of the average person get exploited but their interests never get promoted.”
The PDP, therefore, lambasted Tinubu for making allusion to its determination with Nigerians to retrieve Atiku Abubakar’s stolen Presidential mandate at the court, adding that no amount of blackmail can detract from this resolve.
The party cautioned Tinubu to call himself to order, particularly, as Nigerians, including members of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), have seen through his power-grabbing antics and are now determined to give him the back seat treatment.








			
			Post Views: 
			96