The Governor of Kano State,Dr. Abdulahi Umar Ganduje,has deployed the apparatus of the state government to declare war against the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, the 14th Emir of Kano, as part of the post-election conflicts in Kano. This is the second time the Kano State governor is rising against the Royal Father in Kano.  The first attack was to initiate a probe on how the Emir was running the Palace with insinuations financial impropriety. The intervention of some political authorities from different parts of the country and some traditional rulers in the north, including intervention from the presidency made the governor dropped the plot which was already leading to the removal of the traditional ruler.  This time, Governor Ganjude is out to whittle the powers of the Emir of Kano by limiting the scope of his jurisdiction through creation of artificial new emirates in the state.




The Emir of Kano has developed reputation for speaking loud when governments are going on the wrong side of public policy. In most cases he is misunderstood but he always stands for the truth in national interest.
National Daily learned that Governor Ganduje has assented to the bill for the creation of four emirate councils of Gaya, Rano, Karaye and Bichi in Kano State. The governor had said that the law would come into effect immediately.
Ganduje maintained that all necessary processes for the appointment of emirs and kingmakers would immediately commence. National Daily also learned that the governor assured that state government would provide everything needed to ensure smooth appointment and turbaning of the new emirs.

National Daily inquiry found that the law was an issue of controversy in Kano State House of Assembly. A member of the House, representing Dambatta Local Government, Alhaji Hafizu Sani Mai Daji, had on Wednesday, staged a walkout in protest of the proposed demarcation of the Kano Emirate.
Mai Daji had protested that he staged a walkout from the plenary because there was inequality in the demarcation.
“Dambatta local government has not been given the attention it deserved. Dambatta should be given emirate, not Bichi,” the lawmaker said.
He added: “The district head of Dambatta is the oldest district head in Kano and also kingmaker.
“There is no justification for creating Bichi emirate and that is why I staged a walkout from the session to show my anger because my observation was not recognized by the House.”
The Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi will now preside over ten local government areas, according to the new bill passed by the Kano State House of Assembly. The Kano State House of Assembly has passed the bill for the creation of four new emirates for Gaya, Bichi, Karaye and Rano.
National Daily investigation found that the bill indicates that Kano Emirate is now made up of Kano Municipal, Tarauni,Dala, Nassarawa and Fagge local government areas. Other LGAs in Kano Emirate include Gwale, Kumbotso, Ungogo, Dawakin Kudu and Minijibir. Karaye, Rogo,Gwarzo, Kabo, RiminGado,Madobi and Garun Malam local government areas are listed under Karaye Emirate.  Bichi, Bagwai, Shanono, Tsanyawa, Kunchi, Makoda, Danbatta, Dawakin Tofa and Tofa LGAs The lawmakers listed Rano, Bunkure, Kibiya, Takai, Sumaila, Kura, Doguwa, Tudun Wada, Kiru and Bebeji LGAs under Rano Emirate. Gaya Emirate is made up of Gaya, Ajingi, Albasu, Wudil, Garko, Warawa, Gezawa and Gabasawa LGAs.
Sources from Kano told National Daily that with the creation of the new emirates, Emir Muhammad Sanusi ll, now rules only 10 local governments in the state.
The four emirates were said to be presently supervised by district heads, who, if upgraded, will have emirs as heads.
Further investigation by National Daily revealed that the governor has successfully decimated the powers of the Emir of Kano in settlement of political scores daring the general elections. Sources from Kano said that the Emir was perceived not to be in support of Governor Ganduje, including President Muhammadu Buhari during the elections. However, the Emir has over time made it public that he was going to excuse himself from partisan politics as the fathers of the sons and daughters of the struggling for powers on the platform of different political parties. The neutrality of the Kano Emir was misconstrued to imply nonsupport for the incumbents at both the state and federal governments seeking re-election.
The development is more so when the Emir had at inchoate stage of the APC government cautioned that the new FOREX policy of the federal government was grooming new billionaires who doing no work get rich overnight, arguing that the FOREX regime is synonymous with the petrol subsidy deals of the PDP government.
Emir Sanusi public attacks on wrong government policies know no boundary. When former President Goodluck Jonathan was in office, Sanusi was constantly  sounding it loud that the petrol subsidy was causing huge fraud in the country. He also exposed the missing $20 billion in the NNPC which precipitated investigation by the National Assembly, including ministerial inquiry and reconciliation of accounts by the then Minister of Finance, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo Iweala, the CBN Governor and the NNPC GMD.
Many had thought that Sanusi, a trained economist, was talking loud because President Jonathan was from the south. The Emir, a former CBN Governor, has maintained the same objective evaluation and response to government policies, this time, when a northern Muslim is the President of |Nigeria. The game is now being played differently.








			
			Post Views: 
			105