The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is set for the maiden edition of Nigerian Telecom Leadership Summit (NTLS 2019) which will hold at the Grand Ball Room of Eko Hotel & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos on Thursday, May 23, 2019.
Coming with the theme; “Repositioning the Nigerian Telecom Industry for future challenges and Prospects”, the summit according to the Commission, is in line with the regulator’s commitment towards improving the investment climate of the Nigerian Telecom industry.
NCC in a statement made available to journalist said that “It is geared towards sustaining a robust collaborative regulatory environment where current and future challenges are addressed”.
NCC further noted that as part of the programme of collaborative regulatory atmosphere, the summit presents a unique opportunity for NCC to interact with key stakeholders to discuss pertinent issues affecting the industry with a view to proffering solutions to address challenges. It is also designed to critically analyse the current state of the industry and make profound recommendations for sustaining a healthy Nigerian telecom industry.
Details revealed that whereas the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, is expected to be the Special Guest of honour, the Keynote will be delivered by former Communications Technology Minister, Dr. (Mrs.) Omobola Johnson on the topic, ‘Best Fit Infrastructure Investment Choice for an emerging Market.’
His Excellency, the Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode and the Minister of Communications, Chief. Raheem Adebayo Shittu are expected as guests. The Chairman of the Governing Board of NCC, Distinguished Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye, and Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) and CEO of NCC, Prof. UMar Danbatta, who will present an overview of the Status of the Industry as a prelude to the Keynote and panel discussions will also be present.
Panelists who have been carefully selected for the Summit will discuss “The challenges facing the Nigerian telecoms industry, way forward and the role of the regulator”, and “Implications of multiple taxation on telecom investments in Nigeria”, after a presentation of the latter subject by Dr. Doyin Salami of the Lagos Business School.
Additional details show that the panelists for the two segments include: Mr. Godwin Emefiele, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Ms. Yewande Sadiku, Executive Secretary, Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), Mr. Abubakar Mahmood (SAN) immediate past President, Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), and Mr. Joseph Tegbe, Senior Partner at KPMG,
Also to make appearance on the panel include President, Association of Telecom Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Mr. Olusola Teniola, and his counterpart at the Association of Licensed Telecom Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), Engr. Gbenga Adebayo.
Besides, leading telecoms lawyer, Professor Fabian Ajogwu (SAN), will speak on “The Role of the Mandatory Code of Corporate Governance in the Nigerian Telecom Industry.”
In a brief, NCC recalled that with investments so far put at over $70 Billion since 2001, active lines in the voice segment standing at 173.7 million as at March 2019. Nigeria’s teledensity also stands at 91% as at March 2019, while Broadband users have increased to more than 63 million representing 33.22% using Nigeria’s projected population of 190 million.
According to Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of NCC, the telecommunications sector is “work in progress.”

			
			Post Views: 
			86