The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and the Movement for the Actualisation of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) have described the proposed setting up of a radio station for herdsmen by the Federal Government as the height of hypocrisy.

IPOB Director of Media and Publicity, Emmanuel Powerful, said the development constituted a clear and present danger to non-Fulani Nigerians, but noted that many innocent lives could have been saved if the likes of Obasanjo had spoken out before now.

He said; “Had the likes of Obasanjo spoken out earlier when our leader repeatedly warned of what was happening, many innocent victims of Fulani herdsmen would still be alive today, many ethnically cleansed communities in the Middle Belt, would have been sparred also. But in a country where envy is a badge of honour and jealousy a commendable trait, we expect opposition to the divine messages coming from Mazi Nnamdi Kanu about the liberation of not just Biafra, but of all ethnic nationalities in Nigeria which some are still ignorant of.”

He said Nnamdi Kanu had on February 6, 2014 ‘prophesied’ that “Fulani herdsmen will be armed and encouraged to slaughter Southeasterners with impunity and their masters will protect them.

“They are coming to ensure that people are enslaved forever, those who don’t believe me will soon see it happen before their eyes. They are coming to elevate Hausa-Fulani supremacy to reposition the security agencies by sacking all competent hands and replace them with their Fulani Herdsmen to drive their ethnic domination of Biafrans and other tribes in Nigeria.”

Comrade Madu also noted that he hopes Buhari’s move will reawaken the consciousness of the people of the Niger Delta, Middle Belt, Oduduwa and Igbo for them to rise in defence of their future existence.

He said; “The Yoruba, Ijaw, Igbo, Bini, Itshekiri, Idoma, Tiv, Igala, Hausa, Middle Beltans and Niger Delta ethnic nationalities should immediately establish their tribal radio broadcasting services for their people. No oppressor or religious fundamentalist will ever listen to voice of reasoning or consider the people’s protests.”





			
			Post Views: 
			93