In compliance with constitutional provisions of the association which gives room for periodic election to rejig the handlers of the Lagos State House of Assembly chapter of the Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN),it has elected new executive members to man  the affairs of the association for the next four years.
Thirteen positions were available for the election with eight unopposed, while five were contested.
Mr. Adewale Adele emerged Chairman during the “State Delegate Congress Election,” which held at the Lateef Jakande Hall in the assembly premises on Thursday May 30, 2019.
Adele was returned unopposed to serve the association for a four-year term having been leading the body since 2015.
Others that were elected unopposed were the Vice Chairman, Saidat Olugbode, Secretary, Mrs. Moriam Afolabi-Rufai, Assistant Secretary, Mr. Muritala Raji, Welfare Secretary, Miss Mutiat Akinsanya, Social Secretary, Abisola Junaid, Public Relations Officer, Mr. Gabriel Paul Onajaefe and Legal Adviser, Mrs. Teniade Fashola-Osoba.
Those elected to serve the association included the Women Leader, Mrs. Bajulaiye Afusat, Treasurer, Mrs. Ibironke Olajumoke, Financial Secretary, Mr. Gbenga Gbadamosi, Internal Auditor,  Mr. Idris Onisiwo, and Ex-officio member, Mr. Olajide Senjirin.
Addressing the staff at the Congress, Adele thanked them for their support over the years and promised to continue to do his best to move the association forward.
Adele added that he was able to facilitate a lot of dividends for the entire staff of the assembly.
These, he said included increment in fuel allowance to all staffers in 2015,  facilitated the usage of staff buses in 2016 and yearly participation in May Day celebration with staffers.
“We provided notice board for dissemination of information in 2018, organised a tutorial for staffers preparing for promotion exam in 2017, and we ensured prompt readiness of financial reports yearly,” he said.
He however, promised to serve the staff better in his 2nd term and cover more grounds for the association within the next four years.
The new executive members later took oaths of office as supervised by an officer of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC).

			
			Post Views: 
			67