Ahead of the State FA elections in Abia state scheduled for June 4th 2019, there have been massive protests by some candidates because of the irregularities in the Abia State FA, National Daily gathered.
It will be recalled that in the last 6 years, the Abia State Football Association has been dormant without any tangible event to prove that there is a football board representing the NFF at the state level.
One of the candidates who is vying for the Abia state FA chairmanship position  Mr Ndudi Edede who is  the C.E.O of Dreamland Football Academy, and former member in the state FA criticized the criteria that has Been planned by the current board members to install themselves back in office.
‘” Its a shame that there is no presence of the FA In Abia state, I’ve been a board member before, so what am telling you is from experience.
Across the 17 local government areas in Abia State, you will not see anything to show that there is a presence of an FA in the state.
For 3 years now, they have not played the FA cup finals before, each year when ENYIMBA FC and ABIA WARRIORS Fc gets to the final, the State FA will deny football loving fans the opportunity of seeing their state teams play.
ALSO READ: Abia honours football administrator, Anyansi-Agwu
It is only in Abia state that clubs don’t play the state league, governors cup and even some grassroot tournaments organised by the FA.
“We are bent on making a change because Abia State has got abundant talents, but then the Current FA members are not doing anything,” he said.
Also do you know that the FA in Abia state only have their meetings 4 or 5 times in a year, that’s to show you that they’ve got nothing to offer.
He called on the NFF to look into the matter because, this time around, people are not keeping quiet anymore.
Meanwhile, reports say some notable names in the state have bought forms for the elections which is being sold for 50,000 for the chairmanship position.
Some names to have indicated interest include:
1.Hon. Ginger Onwusibe (Abia House of Assembly member Elect.)
2. Elder Godwin Nna (PDP statesman and a close aide of the Governor).
3. Mr Ndudi Edede (C.E.O Dreamland Football Academy.)

			
			Post Views: 
			66