Outgoing governor of Ogun state, Ibikunle Amosun, has accused the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress of meddling in the affairs of the Ogun state governorship election panel.

Amsun who was reacting to the dismissal of the Ogun state governorship election panel on Monday said the disbandment of the panelists led by Justice C.O. Onyeabo was orchestrated by the decision not to do the bidding of former Lagos state governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and the All Progressives Congress, APC, “especially those who are trying to influence them to truncate justice at the ongoing tribunal.

Speaking at a press conference at the  Allied Peoples’ Movement, APM, national secretariat in Abuja, APM national chairman, Alhaji Yusuf Mamman said that the recently disbanded panel was pursuing justice at all cost.
ALSO READ: So, Tinubu doesn’t own Oriental? 
“It is a fact that after the inaugural sitting, the panel had started sitting and had promised to ensure that justice is done to all parties, and in doing that, the chairman on behalf of other members covenanted that he and his members shall not be used to pervert the course of justice by making sure that justice is delivered without fear or favour of any party. Our party gubernatorial candidate in the election, Hon. Adekunle Akinlade together with our party, the APM, is questioning the unlawful return of the APC candidate in the election, Dapo Abiodun. This has given us the impetus to challenge any act of disbanding of erudite justices, who have covenanted to do justice to all and sundry only to wake up and be greeted with another panel whose chairman has lot of history of conflict of interest in the discharge of his duties as a judge”, Yusuf said.

The APM chairman while rejecting the new panel led by Justice Josephine Coker said her “ascension of the High Court of Lagos was motivated by the former Attorney General of Lagos state who is currently the Vice President of Nigeria and under former governor of Lagos state, Bola Tinubu, appointed her as a judge in Lagos state during his tenure as governor.”







			
			Post Views: 
			90