Dear Mercy,

Trust you and the family are doing just fine. My regards to all of the good peeps around you. Some weeks ago you trended on Twitter. Not because you filed for it. Some wicked people just started throwing shades at Leo Messi.

They kept on saying the Messi at Anfield against Liverpool was Mercy (not Messi) Aigbe  — it was a joke played around the similar sounding pronunciation of both names. Some damn puns from some ill-stars.

That was a sad one for me though. It was a dark day. So dark they compared, you, a movie queen, to Messi a football god. It was really that bad. You enjoyed the joke though, you laughed and even made a repost of it on your instagram.

On your page, you had your pic and Messi’s placed side by side. And that got my imagination ticking. What if you were to be remarried to Leo Messi? I pondered.

Although technically your first wedding with Lanre Gentry still stands. Legally, you both are still man and wife. So that could be an issue (all things being equal that Messi wants a  second wife).

I know you still have two kids for Lanre. But will you quickly divorce him and settle with Messi? If that was an option? I imagine you would. Common, ‘who no like better thing’. Second wife to the Greatest Player Of All Time.

Achievement of life!

You will dive it. You will surely arrest the situation with both hands. It seems so natural. Quite a no-brainer, that you will fast track the divorce Lanre and remarriage to Messi.

After all Messi is gentle. Never in his life did he ever bashed a woman. He has no case of domestic violence. Even his dog has never been domestically maltreated.

One week of Messi’s wages will shoot a record breaking movie in Nigeria. You will start rubbing shoulders with Ronaldo’s wife and other world superstar wives. Dream life!

You recently said:

‘Honestly, I have no such plans of remarrying. I am not fully divorced, and I don’t know what is going to happen tomorrow. Never say never. I have put everything in God’s hands. If God says I will go back to my husband, it is fine. If God says am okay like this, then it’s fine too. Let God take absolute control of everything but there’s no plan of ever settling with someone else”

Well…

If Messi comes for your hand in marriage and you say yes. We can’t even say you went against your words. Your words can’t possibly be used against you. For surely you placed everything in God’s hands. And if it’s Messi and not Mutiu, certainly God has spoken. So long it’s not one footballer in Nasarawa United called Mutiu.

Then your campaign against domestic violence would go global. Your fashion conglomerate will compete with that of the Kardashians. And that mansion worth N200million they said you purchased will be a child’s play.

You will become a mini goddess. I trust your swag to be multiplied by one billion. Your style will leave some solid statements for the entire world to see.

You will come to value marriage once again. Cos madam, your life will change. Reginal Daniels will be a learner. You will pepper them all. I trust you.

As a Nigerian woman I am sure Messi will enjoy your love. I don’t think you will ever want to be separated from him. Suddenly life will bring you a new meaning. I know it is said that right now, about 40% of Americans think marriage is obsolete as a concept. They are not sure it is even necessary. As a result, less couples than ever before are married, and marriage rates is expected to continue to decline into the future.

I am not sure this findings will have anything on you. I am just imagining though.

I hear you are in a mood to sue any journalist that speaks against your truths. Well, don’t sue Ediale. If you sue me what will you gain?

According to your recent post, you instructed your lawyer to write a blogger, ‘who has made it in his/her life mission’, to spread falsehood about you.

Your said “The latest, is that the father of my daughter has been sending money for her upkeep. This lie is in response to the post I made on Mother’s day”.

Okay let me just drop the all quote here:

‘I could have allowed this lie to slide but henceforth, I have made a decision to challenge every form of falsehood. I know like many media people; this particular blogger might not take me seriously. They believe there will be no consequence for spreading false news or if they beg, all will be well.

I’m putting it out here to let you know that this particular blogger lied. In the past 18 years I have been solely responsible for the upkeep of my daughter if the blogger believes otherwise, he/she should come out with Proof or face the consequences! I will not toil day and night to give my children the best in life and have one unprofessional, lazy, clout chasing blogger try to paint me bad.

For the records, I will be pursuing this to a legal logical conclusion and challenge every form of falsehood henceforth.”

So there. And well…

I have not spread any lies here on this letter to you. All I have done is just imagine a beautiful life for you.  A dream that will never come through though.

That Messi that has refused to play for more than one club. Is it that Messi that will marry more than one wife?

Dream aborted! Imagination dashed to pieces!! Now back to reality!!!

Reality:

Keep up being the good single mother you claim to be. And if you ask me (my professional trouble making self), I’d say don’t bother going back to such publicly denouced marriage. You had a series of videos telling us how you were unhappy in the marriage.

How could you even possibly give such marriage a chance now? Forget it. Unless you lied to us the other time. Otherwise leave God out of this matter. And live your best life.

Which one again is:

“…Never say never. I have put everything in God’s hands…” (#Nadem).

Sister move ahead.

Your Never Say Never spotter,
Ediale

#ForTheCulture

P.S: Never say never is what Salah told Liverpool and they defeated Barca 4-0. I guess you could be naturally a Liverpool fan. Their slogan is Never Walk Alone. If that Messi imagination happens, you will not walk into his life alone. I will be your personal assistance. We walk there together. We die there together.







			
			Post Views: 
			302