Candidate who sat for the 2019 UTME have accused the board and network providers of scam in checking their result since it has being released by the board over the weekend.
The Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) released the delayed 2019 UTME results and advised participants to use the same GSM number used in registering for the exams to send their name to code: 55019, the more than one million students have all lost not less than N100 without getting their results.

Some of the candidates who relayed their horrible experiences described JAMB’s notice to candidates as orchestrated scam to defraud them of their air time and called on the Consumer Protection Council (CPC) to help them get back their varnished airtime.

The general complain of the candidates’ shows that immediately you use the same number used in registering for the exams to send your name to the code, N50 will varnish with a reply that “Your request has been received and is being processed, you will get response shortly. This service will cost you N50”.

After a while, the candidate will get another system reply, telling him or her that “This GSM number has already been used. Please send RESEND to 55109 to retrieve your profile”.

According to the aggrieved candidates, immediately you send another N50 will varnish with a reply you do not need, saying “Dear (name of candidate), your profile code is (****). Visithttp://ibassjamb.gov.ng for your eBrochure.”

The candidates further explained that even if you visit the portal and scroll to results, you will only past results from the 1990s to 2018 without getting what you are looking for which is the latest 2019 JAMB results.
Many of them revealed that due to anxiety, they have attempted the cycle of scam for more than three times only to receive the same answers with money lost upon not getting their results.

Many of them argued and accused JAMB of conniving with networks to milk them dry, knowing full well that that the said released results are yet to be uploaded after all.

However, in a swift response, the Board has said that GSM service providers should be blamed for candidates’ inability to get the results of their 2019 UTME after texting their details to a dedicated code.

Head, Media and Information at JAMB, Dr. Fabian Benjamin, though agreed that the examination board was already aware of the problem and had consequently summoned a meeting with the GSM service providers, he added that “They have assured (us) that they are working hard to get the issue addressed and that in no distant time, candidates should be able to access their results without hitch.”

Some human rights advocates who spoke to our correspondents threatened to drag JAMB to court for apparently conniving with networks to cheat candidates when they are aware that the said released results are not yet available for candidates to access.

JAMB also hinted that out of the number, 15,145 results are undergoing further clarification as in the case of identical twins and siblings.


			
			Post Views: 
			89