NatCom Development & Investment Ltd, operators of the Ntel 4G/VoLTE Network has announced the appointment of Mr. Babatunde Omotoba as its Managing Director /Chief Executive Officer with effect from Tuesday 7th of May 2019.   Until his appointment as the CEO, Babatunde had served for three years as a high performing non-Executive Director at ntel, serving on various committees of the Board.  Babatunde Omotoba will take over from Mr. Ernest Akinlola who recently resigned as the Managing Director / CEO.
Babatunde   Omotoba   is a   seasoned   Administrator   with   over   30   years of General Management, Telecoms, Transportation, Power, Aviation, Financing, Private Equity, Investment, Due Diligence, Auditing, Consulting, Construction   and   Structural   Engineering   experience.   As the Group Chief Operating Officer of Ancestral Holdings for four years, he managed various group companies in various sectors including: Telecoms, Financial Services, Construction and Transportation, Power, Real Estate; etc. He has also executed various safety critical infrastructural projects in the aviation sector of the Nigerian economy including the Total Radar Coverage of Nigeria Airspace. As an Investor, he structured and invested more than $200 million in over 12 projects with total transaction size in excess of $1.2 billion in the United States of America and in Nigeria. As an Accountant, he managed due diligence reviews, and performed audits, fraud investigations, financial consulting, and diagnostic reviews; and carried out value-for-money review for the over $1 billion Nigerian Government Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) consulting contracts. He assisted in developing the planning and budgeting, financial reporting and assets and liabilities management programs for one of the largest banks in Nigeria. As an Engineer, he worked as Resident Construction and Structural Engineer on several Nigerian government infrastructural projects in eight states of Nigeria and in Kubwa, Maitama and Asokoro Districts of the Federal Capital Territory.
 Babatunde Omotoba has  held  diverse   positions   across   various   sectors:  Manager  in  Arthur Andersen (now KPMG Professional Services), Nigeria Office; Vice President, Private Equity at Smith Whiley & Co. in the United States of America, and Head, Private Equity and Secretary to the Investment Committee of Africa Finance Corporation (“AFC”), in Nigeria before his appointment as Honourable Minister and member, Federal Executive Council, Federal Republic of Nigeria in December 2008. He was a Member of the Governing Council of National Emergency Management Agency (“NEMA”) and National Council on Privatization (NCP). He served as a Senior Adviser to Africa Finance Corporation

			
			Post Views: 
			76