The Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON), Oyo State Chapter, has reacted to the dissolution of the local government chairmen and authorities by newly-sworn in governor, Seyi Makinde.
 
Recalls that the local government chairmen, who are all members of All Progressives Congress (APC), were elected during the election conducted by the state Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) in May 2018.
 
Makinde had on Wednesday through his Chief of Staff, Chief Bisi Ilaka, announced that he had dissolved all local government chairmen in the state with immediate effect.
 
The Governor, in a statement on Thursday, asked the Council chairmen to handover to the head of local government administration or the most senior directors in their local government areas and councils.
 
He also announced that all Boards of parastatals and corporations be dissolved.
ALSO READ: Governor Makinde dissolves LG councils in Oyo
Makinde concluded that embargo has been placed on all Local and State Government accounts until further directives.
ALGON, while reacting, described the announcement as illegal, unconstitutional and unwise.
 
It described the decision as being in a contempt of a subsisting court injunction against any dissolution of the councils as ordered by Justice A. A. Aderemi of High Court 2, Ibadan, Oyo State., on May 6, 2019.
 
ALGON Chairman, Prince Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye, in a statement on Thursday in Ibadan, the state capital, insisted that decision was too hasty for a new government that is yet to find its feet.
 
Abass-Aleshiloye said, “It has come to the notice of ALGON Oyo State branch that the new governor of Oyo State, His Excellency, Engr. Seyi Makinde, has purportedly dissolved all democratically elected local government in the state.
 
“This to say the least is unconstitutional unwise, unexpected and too hasty for a new government that is yet to find its feet. This illegality was reported in the news media.
 
“ALGON Oyo rejects this unconstitutional act of Mr. Governor. It is illegal and a contempt of a subsisting court injunction against any dissolution of the councils as ordered by Justice A. A. Aderemi of High Court 2, Ibadan, Oyo State., on May 6, 2019.”

			
			Post Views: 
			51