Newly sworn-in Governor of Lagos state, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, says his administration intends to make history not just for the present residents of Lagos, but also for generation unborn to have a better future.
Sanwo-Olu took the oath of office earlier today as Governor of Lagos as conducted by the Chief Judge of the State, with his family members standing by his side.
He replaces Akinwunmi Ambode, who only spent one tenure and lost during the All Progressives Congress (APC) primaries.
In his inaugural address, he said his inauguration marks the beginning of a new chapter in Lagos state journey to greatness. “When we speak of a Greater Lagos, we speak not empty words. It is a deep and profound assertion we mean.
“We need not be discouraged by the challenges that may be apparent. Today is an opportunity for us to forge ahead in our quest for a Greater Lagos. In Lagos State, our story has been of successes and achievements. Since 1999, our tradition of progressive governance has set Lagos apart and strengthened people’s belief in our ideology.”
“In this, we simply adhere to the tradition of enlightened government set by those who came before us. We owe a large debt of gratitude to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and to Babatunde Raji Fashola SAN.
“Asiwaju led the team that created the blueprint for development; both administrations faithfully executed that economic blueprint and established the structures and institutions of progressive governance in the process.
ALSO READ: Oshiomhole: How northern APC elite trigger last crisis APC won’t survive
He said as long as Lagos flourishes, Nigeria has more than a fair chance to enjoy the development and growth needed for its deserving population. If Lagos falters, Nigeria also stumbles.
“As I said in my acceptance speech, I am too focused on moving Lagos forward to give a second thought to where a person may have come from. As long as you are animated by the spirit of achievement, cooperation and tolerance, then you are Lagosian. This is my motto.
“The Deputy Governor, Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat and I are single-minded in our desire to bequeath to our successors a far Greater Lagos than the one we inherited today
“And to do so, we have formulated a concise framework that encapsulates our collective vision for the state and ensures that our undertaking remains focused and our communication remains clear as we endeavour to build a Greater Lagos we can all be proud to call home.
According to Sanwo-Olu, his team has developed a framework which comprises of six pillar of Development Agenda as captured in the acronym, “T.H.E.M.E.S.
The six pillars he listed as Traffic Management and Transportation, Health and Environment, others are Education and Technology, Making Lagos a 21st Century Economy, Entertainment and Tourism and Security and Governance.
He said with these goals, his administration will embark on a new social contract that will ultimately be beneficial to all; irrespective of age, religion, socio-economic status or ethnicity.





			
			Post Views: 
			100