By Odimmegwa Johnpeter/Abuja
Nigeria has reiterated its readiness to combat terrorism in the country. This was stated while giving their country report at the ongoing first ordinary session of the ECOWAS Parliament in Abuja. According to the report, Nigeria has mapped out specific measures for combating terrorism. The report noted that Boko Haram insurgency remains a threatening occurrence in Nigeria and citizens still fall victim of mass killing and displacements due to the insurgency. Despite these threats according to the report, the Federal Government of Nigeria has made efforts to combat the insurgency and provide a haven to people in the affected areas. The report also stressed that the Nigerian Army has also inaugurated and enhance security network in Maiduguri. It also noted that since Boko Haram members were identified to be young and lured into the sect due to their desperate situation, the Nigerian Government opted to tackle the insurgency from its roots, while taking other measures to fight the insurgents. Accordingly the report stated, one of the major grassroots solutions that the government has employed is the sensitization of youths in the North-Eastern part of Nigeria and the provision of basic amenities for them. The report also said that during the recently concluded elections, a vast majority of Nigerians thought that citizens in the North-East region of Nigeria (the most affected area) would be unable to leave their homes to cast their votes.
Nevertheless, the report noted, the turnout in this region was high as many military men were deployed to those areas to ensure smooth, safe and hitch-free election procedures. It also stated that the result of the elections, stating the massive turnout of North-Eastern citizens can be thus, attested to the efforts of the government in ensuring a safe environment for voting.
The report also noted that while the Northeast geopolitical zone is stabilizing so-what as a result of the degrading of the capacity of Boko Haram insurgency, a new phenomenon of kidnapping and banditry is emerging including kidnapping along the Kaduna – Abuja highway.

			
			Post Views: 
			96