By Alex Olise
The Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lieutenant General Tukur Yusuf Buratai has urged commanders of troops currently fighting insurgency in the North East and other operations across the country to always boost the morale of soldiers under them by promptly addressing their needs.
The Army Chief gave the directive at the 9th Brigade Officers Mess, Ikeja Cantonment, Lagos at the weekend shortly after commissioning some projects at the various military formations under the 81 division in Lagos.
According to the Army boss, it is very important for commanders to always find out how troops under them are fairing in various locations where they are deployed to perform their duties.
He assured that the Nigerian Army are doing their best to re-professionalize and re-strategize in their operations to tackle insurgency across the country.
Buratai added that the menace of Boko-Haram and other banditary would continue to be addressed as they come and manifest.
“The insurgency we are facing is something that we will continue to address as they appear and manifest in different forms and shapes,” he said.
He also expressed worries over the role of some social media operators who go all out to eulogize terrorists by reporting issues aimed at demoralizing soldiers who are in the war front protecting the sovereignty of the Nation.
The Army chief, therefore, urged the media to co-operate with the military by verifying facts before going to press.
According to Buratai, “We call on the media to be very cautious and careful in disseminating informations without proper verification.

He cautioned that such nformation, sometimes wrong, affected the lives of the gallant soldiers deployed for operations which was also at the detriment of the country’s national security.
The Chief of Army Staff was in Lagos to commission many projects which included Phase three of reconstructed, renovated and remodeled projects at the 68 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital Yaba. All projects are fully equipped with up to date standard facilities.
He also commissioned the newly reconstructed and renovated Nigerian Army Post Exchange (NAPEX) which is equally equipped with standard facilities among others.
Lt Gen Buratai while interacting with senior officers and soldiers urged them to maintain all the facilities including the Corps Commander Supply and Transport residence and Barracks which was also commissioned at Yaba.
The Chief also visited Ojo Army Cantonment to inspect another project which are ongoing.
He, therefore advised officers and soldiers to remain professional, committed, dedicated and loyal to constituted authorities while carrying out their assigned duties.

			
			Post Views: 
			84