at her coronation as Yeye Meso of Ado Kingdom

By Olanrewaju Adesanya
The Chief Executive Officer of the Lagos International Trade Fair Complex,Chief Mrs. Lucy Ajayi has being bestowed with another chieftaincy title by Oba Lateef Olayinka Ado,the Alado of Ado Kingdom.
The monarch who is also celebrating his 20th coronation anniversary, while performing the installation rites on the LITFC boss at his palace,attest to the unprecedented developments recorded in the Trade Fair since she was appointed, stating that she has facilitated visible transformation there.
“Since you came to manage the Trade Fair,things have taken shape and I am honoured to bestow on you the title of Yeye Meso of the entire Ado Kingdom.
” You have impacted many people here positively so we confer on you this title to encourage you for higher feats”. Says Oba Ado.
Speaking about the title which happens to be the second within the space of five months, Chief (Mrs.) Ajayi  stated that her being honoured within the ambit of her official engagement states the obvious that well meaning individuals have noticed her giant strides at the Trade Fair.
“Yeye Meso and the other title I had some months back really has no distinctive difference, they simply mean the same thing, the addition is that I am having two titles now, Yeye Meso means beautiful mother of the kingdom,which implies you have added more to the kingdom.
“In essence it is the beauty at heart not physical beauty,when you have impacted so many lives positively and you are a woman then you are Yeye Meso.
Madam Ajayi also expressed her view about the level of involvement of women in politics she claim more women are now encouraged to take up active roles.
“I am more at home with whatever will make women take active role in politics, I would embrace that because I am already in politics and also encourage more women to come.
” For me though I prefer taking up appointive roles,like the one I have now,seeking elective positions is really not in view for me, as it requires a lot of  money and some other factors that scares me.
She added that no matter what political involvement a woman has,she must create room for ensuring the home front is intact.
“We should try and bring our children up in the way of the Lord and if you give them a godly beginning they would not deviate from it.
” As a woman involved politically I ensure I sleep late and wake up early, so as to afford the home front the needed care,on no account must this key strata of ones life suffer. She said.
Chief Ebubedike Ofokansi the Executive President of ASPANDA, reacting to the honour done on Chief Lucy Ajayi cited her brave and passion driven taste for development.
” It means a lot the woman in question is a woman with a man’s heart,an action woman,since she came into that Trade Fair she transformed it into what it is today and I can say all of us are happy now.
“We have very great improvement all thanks to her,look at the 5km road network being constructed,virtually everything turned around for good.
“In fact she deserve the Yeye Meso title bestowed on her today. We are here to appreciate God for making it possible.
Chief Folorunsho Ajayi her husband cited the import of the title bestowed on his wife in her working environment as a laudable one.
” Absolutely awesome,it is an honour much appreciated,it all went smoothly,especially because of the scenario and where the title came from,the Ado Kingdom we are very grateful to the Oba and his chiefs for that.
“They are the local rulers of this Trade Fair area, practically the Oba of this vicinity and Kingdom, and she is the Chief Executive Officer the International Trade Fair Complex that makes it special.  It will give her deserved recognition and would also boost her political career.
Chief Odigie the Obamedu of Ekpoma kingdom, her father also stated why the title is important.
ALSO READ: Morayo Afolabi-Browne, host of “Your View” resigns from TVC
” I really don’t have a say or opinion but it is an appreciation of her efforts in all she has done,I will have also bestowed on her same title because she is doing a good job and she is not lazy and same goes  for all my children.
“Her own is obvious because of her political involvement,there are some who are doing great as well but not yet known, you don’t know much about them, when your efforts are appreciated it encourages you to do more.
“She should it keep up and be careful in attending to people because you are now noticed and much more responsibility will come due to that, with more chieftaincy titles here and there.
“She is a princess, being from a royal family but a title in a different land,yet she is being recognized.
“People recognize the fact that she can box you today but the next minutes you are friends,she has friends and no enemies,if you are nursing any grudge and she knows she would approach you make explanations and clarify issues with you,she is a joy mixer,who makes others smile,frowning is not her thing.
The venue for the coronation anniversary, Lagos State Technical College, Ado-Soba,Abule-Ado, Amuwo Odofin Local Government,Lagos State, was filled to its brim as many of the newly coronated chiefs mount tents and canopies, tastefully decorated and stocked with lots of food and assorted drinks for well wishers.
Popular artists,Mr.Odunlade Adekola was the Master of Ceremony(MC) aided by Ronke Oshodi Oke, they both manned the order of event.
Fuji Maestro King Wasiu Ayinde Marshal was also on ground, thrilling dignitaries in his popular blend of music,as the guests dance along.

			
			Post Views: 
			69