Laments north at war with itself

An elder statesman and retired Commissioner of Police, Alhaji Abubakar B Tsav, has slammed the Governor of Kano State, Dr. Abdulahi Umar Ganduje, over the attack on the Emir of Kano, His Highness, Muhammad Sanusi II, through the creation of new emirates and appointment of new emirs, some of which have been declared illegal by the court.
Abubakar Tsav in a statement sent to National Daily decried that the North seems to be at war with itself and security agencies seem to be over stretched, adding that the Acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, is even losing weight over the sordid security situation in the north.
Tsav noted that the North East is ravaged by Boko Haram warfare which has made many women widows and Children orphans. He further decried that the North West, especially, Zamfara and adjacent states, have witnessed and are still witnessing senseless killings and kidnappings, adding that this has spread to Katsina, Sokoto, etc, states.
The elder statesman also stated that Abuja-Kaduna road has been made impassable by kidnappers who are said to be Fulanis who lost their cows to rustlers.
ALSO READ: Emir Sanusi fires back at Ganduje
The former Police Commissioner, therefore, declared: “despite this catalogue of violence in the North, we are trying to open up another chapter of violence in the ancient City of Kano by the hurried fragmentation of the ancient Kano Emirate into four/five for political reasons.
“Tempers are rising while the civilized and law-abiding Kanawas have rushed to Court and obtained a restraining Order against the State Govt.
“We are now virtually sitting on a keg of gun powder waiting for it to explode and consume us and the whole North.
“We are not even bothered about the security implication of our actions and the consequences.”
Tsav remarked that some Patriotic Northerners have issued press statements, appealing for calm; saying: “I want to join this group to appeal to the Kano State Government and all other stakeholders, to be patient, civilized and law-abiding and comply with Court’s restraining Order.
“We should not allow Kano to explode because we don’t know if we may also be consumed in the explosion.”
Tsav further admonished: “Let us not make things difficult for the Federal Government of President Muhammadu Buhari.
“Let us insulate Traditional Rulers from partisan politics. They are Traditional Fathers and let them remain as such and earn the respect they deserve.”

















			
			Post Views: 
			342