Says inauguration renders Nigerians hopeless 


The Take it Back Movement led by Omoyele Sowore, presidential candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC) in the 2019 general elections have raised red alert that the inauguration of President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday, May 30, in Abuja rendered Nigerians more hopeless from where the All Progressives Congress (APC) government is taking the citizens from.
Sowore in a statement on Thursday by Rachel Onamusi-Kpiasi, Director, PR, Media and Communications, Take it Back Movement/African Action Congress, decried that “President Muhammadu Buhari started his second term with no message of hope and nothing to offer Nigerian citizens.”
Sowore remarked that President Buhari at eh inauguration on Wednesday set a new record by being the first democratically elected president in the history of Nigeria not to deliver an inaugural speech.
The statement read in part: “The Take it Back Movement led by Omoyele Sowore believes this shocking silence to be disrespectful to Nigerians and further reflective of the non-existent plans that the APC-led government has for the country.
“Anyone holding out for change, next level or any level other than the one the country has found itself would have been met by silence yesterday.
“Silence at a time when the economy has plunged to unimaginable depths.
“No advice as lawlessness and terrorism reign supreme, and the criminals – those with guns and those in positions of power – escape unpunished.
ALSO READ: Catalogue of Okowa’s giant strides in Delta 
“No words of comfort or encouragement as Nigerians are denied entry or rights abroad and denied respect at home.
“No stern words or promises of sanction or punishment for those who bleed the country dry and waste human lives at scale as people are denied security, access to healthcare, education or reliable infrastructure.
“We do, however, thank him for his honesty. The man who assured the nation four years ago that he “belonged to everybody and nobody” made it clear in his first term that he did, indeed, belong to a select few who did not serve the interest of the Nigerian masses.”
Sowore remarked that the flagrant disregard of a leader who has secured his second term and no longer has a need to keep up the pretense is not surprising to the Take it Back Movement, declaring:  “and we remain resolute in our stance: Nigeria must be liberated.
“We will continue to speak truth to power, educate the masses, and show our people the freedom in daring to hope.
“Where they meet Nigerians with silence, we will give our people revolution, a dream to aspire to.
“We will fight every step of the way to create a Nigeria we will be proud to call home.”

			
			Post Views: 
			150