The Lagos State Police Command has revealed the disentombment of four corpses dumped in a septic tank at Ikorodu for autopsy.
The Police explained that the Command received a complaint from Ikorodu residents that some unidentified persons approached one Alhaji Yakubu Musa and Alhaji Hassan Umaru, both operators of Bureau De Change at Benson area, Ikorodu, telling them that they have a relation who returned from overseas and need to sell 10,000 US Dollars.
It was stated that they initially requested that payment will be made in a Bank at Ikorodu, however,  on getting to the Bank, the suspects diverted the operators to an unknown destination where they demanded for ransom from their friends and relatives.
The suspects who turned kidnappers at that point collected N1.6 million ransoms, yet held their victims captive. Report indicated that no news was heard from them since them.  The victims phones were said to have remained switched off.
The Commissioner of Police Lagos State, CP Zubairu Muazu, was said to have mandated that the Commander, Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), to carry out an in depth investigation into the matter with a view of rescuing the victims and apprehending the suspects.
Operatives from SARS Ipakodo led by SP Godfrey Soriwei were said to have arrested three suspects, namely: Oluwatosin Olanrewaju 40 years old, Mayowa Olawuni a.k.a General and Babatunde Idris a.k.a Aloma. The suspects were said to have confessed to the crime and led operatives to their den at Ikorodu where they dumped the corpses in a septic tank.
Two locally made single barrel guns with five live cartridges, one locally made gun with three ammunition, one locally made revolver pistol with three live ammunition, one cutlass, one axe and some charms were disclosed to be recovered from the kidnappers.
DSP Bala Elkana had declared: “Investigation revealed that the suspects had at various times used the abandoned company as their den, where all their targets are killed and dumped in the sceptic tank. As part of the investigation, four decomposed bodies have been recovered from the septic tank for autopsy.”
The suspects were said to have confessed to have killed the other two rival cult members and dumped them in the septic tank before killing the two Bureau de change operators.
They are currently assisting the police in the arrest of the other fleeing members of the gang.  Investigation is ongoing, suspects will be charged to Court as soon as investigation is completed, the Police said.

			
			Post Views: 
			102