Dear Naira Marley,

Sad times ahead, it seems. You need the strenght of Bob Marley to overcome the current predicament (the Naira fails, Bob to the rescue).

Who will help? Who will be your Bob?

This doesn’t look good.

Your goons — Zlatan and others who were arrested with you but granted bail during the week — are clearly not bob enough.

I am not hearing any body saying anything on your behalf.

Reason?

Nobody wants EFCC digging on them.

Daddy Showkey tried. But Showkey is not the dude we use to know. Bros is a mini butty now. He is a father to many kids and can’t just jump into avoidable activism.

Who ever wants to stick his neck for you has to be a saint. He must be clean and have no association with Yahoo Boys.

We all know that’s difficult to find in the music scene these days. Yahoo Boys help the music industry go round.

EFCC isn’t playing here, they have slapped you with 11-count charges. And you will be arraigned at the court of law on Monday, May 20, 2019.

Just when you started blooming.

You now stand the risk of spending seven years in jail if found guilty of the alleged credit case fraud. The charges with suit number FHC/L/178C/19 was filed before a Lagos State High Court.

Just imagine what would have happened if you didn’t jump on the ‘internet scam’ trending debate. Your social media outburst justifying why Nigerians should indulge in internet scam is what started this.

Those who supported you are now mute. Agreed the whole shenanigans you put also made you famous. Your hit song Issa Goal was more popular than your name.

Now many know Naira Marley. Sadly, EFCC also got inquisitive and now they know you too.

Although EFCC said your arrest was not because of your justification and support for yahoo yahoo, they said you were arrested during raid and found incriminating items with you and your friends. But does EFCC just go raiding just about anybody?

Your music ‘Jaapa’ has a video of you running from the grip of the Police. Your ‘Am I A Yahoo Boy’ music video also has something about the police on your ass.

Did you attract all these to yourself with your creative outputs? Are you truly innocent of all the charges? And did you borrow someone’s laptop? Is it someone’s Laptop that was found in your disposal?

That laptop is the only nail on your head right now. Let’s agree with your publicists that the laptop isn’t yours. Is anyone willing to come out and stand for you? Will someone come out and claim the laptop for your sake? Will you name the owner and will he be available?

This is not pretty.

The devil did overtime on this. He allowed you insult an elder in the music scene. Now most elders won’t pull their weights for you.

Although that was how Ruggedman came to fame as well. He blasted Eedris and other ‘wack’ rappers then. But it was through music. Just pure music dissing.

And the devil also pushed you to give a public confession all in the name of boasting. You claimed to have been arrested 124 times in the UK:

“124 times in England I’ve been arrested, gone in the cell. Let me tell you, you don’t know nothing about me,” you said in a video of your live Instagram session which surfaced online.

What 15 songs could not do for you, a scandal has done.  Perhaps as everyone google Afeez Fashola or Naira Marley perhaps they will also see your claim of how you started the ‘afrobashment’ genre before other musicians joined.

Monday 20, is the D-Day. We wait. We wish you justice.

Your Afrobashment Throne spotter,
Ediale

#ForTheCulture

PS: Life is hard and twisted.
Mr. A likes to enjoy life he wants to live more of it. He is raided.
Mr. B is depressed. He wants to end the life. The raiders are far from him.







			
			Post Views: 
			198