The Senate Leader, Ahmed Lawan, says he has no ill feelings towards Ali Ndume or Danjuma Goje, over who becomes the next Senate President in the ninth assembly.
The APC senator, representing Yobe- North, made the remark when he was a guest at the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) Forum in Abuja.
The APC has zoned the senate president’s slot to the north east where the trio of Lawan, Ndume and Goje hail from.
However, the ruling party endorsed the candidacy of Mr Lawan for the position.
But Mr Ndume (APC Borno South) and Mr Goje (APC Gombe Central), have stood their grounds on vying for the number one seat of the Senate.
”By the grace of God and with the support of my colleagues in the APC, PDP and YPP in the Senate, we should be able to deliver that burden very well.
”I have no hard feelings against my brothers from the north east contesting.
”What the party and the leaders did was to say I have been recommended or I have been endorsed.
”That is a preference; that the party has a preference is not to say that others cannot do the job.
”But definitely, the party, our leaders have some reasons why they think we are most suitable for this job,” Mr Lawan said.
The lawmaker, however, said the decision of his colleagues to contest the position with him was constitutional.
“We are going from door to door; we are talking to all the senators-elect. We talk to the APC senators, PDP senators and YPP senator, believing that we are going to work with them.
“Therefore, we need to bridge the gap and we need to know ourselves even before we get there,’’ he said.
According to him, the effort is yielding fruits because “majority of the senators feel that really we have something to offer and that by the grace of God when we are able to make it, we can, together, work out that desirous legislative interventions of the time for the executive to have something to work on.
“So we are glad that we are working with majority of our colleagues across party lines.
“In fact, APC senators, almost everyone is on this project and we have sat and spoken and talked one-on-one.
“So many PDP senators are in support of this project. In fact, YPP is fully onboard, Sen. Ifeanyi Uba from Anambra. And we believe that this is the way to go,’’ he said.
He called on his colleagues to collaborate with him in helping “the next administration deliver on those things that everybody in this country is yearning for.’’

 

			
			Post Views: 
			76