…Ibadan indigenes warn
Local government chairmen in Oyo State on Thursday threatened showdown with the new governor of the state, Engineer Seyi Makinde, over the dissolution of local councils on Wednesday after his inauguration in Ibadan.
The Oyo State ALGON Chairman, Prince Abass-Aleshinloye, in a statement on Thursday titled:  “Purported Dissolution of Local Government in Oyo State,” described the governor’s action as illegal and unconstitutional; he subsequently commenced mobilization of his colleagues for immediate action. The State ALGON immediately rejected the dissolution of local governments by the governor, instigating ALGON members to rise for battle with the governor.
The statement read: “It has come to the notice of ALGON Oyo State branch that the new Governor of Oyo State, Engr. Seyi Makinde, has purportedly dissolved all democratically elected local government in the state.
“This, to say the least, is unconstitutional, unexpected and too hasty for a new government.
“This illegality was reported in the news media..
“ALGON Oyo rejects this unconstitutional act of Mr. Governor. “It is illegal and a contempt of a subsisting court judgment against any dissolution of the councils as ordered by Justice A. A. Aderemi of High Court 2, Ibadan, Oyo State., on May 6, 2019.
“We wish to appeal to all local government chairmen, councilors, supervisors and Oyo State citizens in these respective councils to remain calm and be peaceful.
“ALGON will seek all democratic and constitutional means to correct this illegal act.
“All will be appropriately updated as events unfold.
“We count on your solidarity and maximum moral support in this democratic struggle.”
ALSO READ:Governor Makinde dissolves LG councils in Oyo
However, indigenes of Oyo State have cautioned the local government chairmen against engaging the new governor in a political battle, declaring that their occupation of office has been illegitimate.
One of the indigenes from Ibadan wrote on his social media page: “Abass or what do you call your name, this is not apc government ooo. Who elected you as a local government chairman self or chairman of ALGON in this state? When your oga is there, what effort did he, the “Constituted authority” make to move the state forward. Please call yourself to order and move out of secretariat without delay. O se ooo ogbeni. Don’t fight for us.”
Another stakeholder wrote: “Laughable and who recognized you as ALGON? Your title now is former. Your colleagues ruled with arrogance, no respect to elders and no respect to rule of law.”










			
			Post Views: 
			442