The Acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, at the Police Mobile Force Conference  at the Force Headquarters, Abuja, on Thursday, reaafirmed the restriction order by the Police authorities on assigning police officers to provide escorts for wealthy individuals in the Nigeria. The IG advocated the need for justice for all citizens in Nigeria by deploying police officers to provide security for the general public.

The IG also told the Commanders to ensure officers under their commands are alert while on duty. He decried attacks on police officers on duty by criminals which he said have  led to death of officers and loss of weapons.

IG Adamu emphasised that the conference was convened to interact with the newly appointed Squadron Commanders across the 67 Mobile Police Squadrons in the Nigeria Police.

 
The IG noted thd prior to the mobilization of the newly Squadron Commanders, Officers of the Rank of CSPs and SPs hitherto held sway in all the respective Squadrons.  “But in consideration of the increasingly complex internal security challenges which have widened the responsibilities of the Police Mobile Force, it was considered expedient to review and standardize the status of Squadron Commanders. This informed the upgrade of the rank of Squadron Commanders to Assistant Commissioners of Police,” IG Adamu declared.
The IG said that the appointment is part of the broad re-organization plan envisioned for the Police Mobile Force and it is aimed at strengthening the command and control framework of the Mobile Police Force towards positioning them to respond more potently to the dynamics of crime in the country. “This is considered within the context of the renewed offensive by the Nigeria Police against the heightened threat of kidnaping, armed robbery, banditry, cattle rustling, communal clashes and terrorism. As you assumed full leadership of your Squadrons, you will all be expected to draw on your vast operational experiences towards supporting other detachments of the Police in undertaking special operations to mitigate these threats,” IG Adamu stated.
The IG acknowledged the challenges within the Squadrons, noting that  these have been a subject of discourse within the Force Management Team. He assured that the enhancement of the operational capacity of the Special and Tactical Units of the Force is atop the prioritization scale of the current Police leadership dispensation. “Consequently, no stone will be left unturned in our commitment to addressing challenges that are currently inhibiting the optimal operational capacity of these Units. Our efforts at this direction shall be made manifest in due course,” he declared.
ALSO READ: Five UNILAG students in court for gang-raping colleague
The IG highlighted the factors that necessitated the need to restore the Police Mobile Force to its original operational mandate: These he said include:
Regularization and Standardization of PMF. He stated that the primary responsibility as Police Force is to ensure the safety of the citizens.  In doing that, the IG said, it is imperative to standardize the deployment of PMF.  He cautioned that a  situation where a single individual who is not qualified and has no authority to move about with PMF escort for his or her protection is found enjoying such individualized and specialized police protection is no longer acceptable.  “We must ensure justice and fair treatment to all citizens by way of giving more attention to the protection of the general public. As such, you should remain guided by this new Force Policy in the manner you deploy your personnel,” he stated.
Training: The IG said thatCommanders must embark on local training so as to prepare their men for the challenges ahead.  “The Squadron Commanders; 2i/c Squadron Commanders, as well as Unit Commanders Combat Operation training will, henceforth, be given topmost priority so as to enable the Force contend with the various security challenges and give the right orientation to you all in meeting the complexities and risks associated with your specialized  duties,” the IG maintained.
Attack on Personnel on Special Duty: The IG lamented that the rate at which personnel on special duty lose their lives and weapons to criminal elements is of grave concern to the Police leadership. He said that while framework for deployment shall be reviewed with a view to addressing gaps that occasion this, he must warn the Commanders, that it remains their responsibilities to offer the appropriate supervisory control on the personnel to ensure that their level of alertness while on duty remains high at all times. “This is in order to prevent unanticipated attacks on police personnel under your command. You shall, henceforth, be held vicariously liable for any such attacks that result under your supervisory negligence,” the IG declared.
The IG congratulated the Squadron Commanders on their appointment, expressing the trust that yhey shall justify the confidence reposed in them by demonstrating high-level of professional capacity, courage and sacrifice which are the hallmarks of the Police Mobile Force.
He, thereafter,  wished them fruitful deliberation and God’s protection as they emvark on the task of leading the Police Mobile Force to strengthen the countrys internal security.






 






			
			PV: 
			0