The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), says Senate President Bukola Saraki, should not fret if he has no skeletons in his cupboard, but should rather open himself up for such investigation.

The EFCC gave the advice in statement while reacting to a comment by Dr. Bukola Saraki that his recent investigation by the EFCC on his stewardship as Kwara state governor and the senate president was politically motivated.

Saraki had in a statement on Wednesday accused the anti-graft agency of political witch hunt, arguing why he was singled out for investigation among the hundreds of politicians who have passed through the state as either governor, or lawmaker.

The commission noted that “while it is his prerogative to ventilate his views on the matter as he deems fit, the Commission takes great exception at the desperate attempt to cast a slur on its investigative activities by portraying himself as a victim of persecution”.
ALSO READ: Investigation: Saraki replies EFCC
EFCC further said it “finds the attempt by the Senate President to tie our inquest to his International Human Rights Commission, IHRC appointment and his approaching life out of power as misleading, knowing too well that the background to our current inquiries reaches several years back.

“For the avoidance of doubt, the EFCC is obligated by law to enthrone probity and accountability in the governance space and has supremely pursued this duty without ill-will or malice against anyone.

“It is in the interest of the public, and for Saraki’s personal good, that he is not only above board, but be seen at all times to be so.

“Indeed, all the instances in which the EFCC have had cause to sleuth into his financial activities either as a former governor or President of the Senate were driven by overarching public interest and due process of the law.

“Against the background of the posse of indicting petitions and other evidence available to the EFCC, even Saraki will agree with the Commission that putting him through a legitimate forensic inquiry is the legitimate route to establish his integrity as a public servant.

“The distinguished Senate President has no need to fret so long as he has no skeletons in his cupboard.

“The Commission has a sacred mandate to rid the country of corruption and corrupt elements and restates its unflinching resolve to achieve these, no matter whose ox is gored”.













			
			Post Views: 
			84