British Prime minister, Theresa May is in a desperate bid to save her political career following an overwhelming rejection of her Brexit deal for the third time by parliament on Wednesday.

Pressure within both May’s government and party is building for her to go now so that a new leader can rescue the process before Britain crashes out without a deal.

Already, anxious members of May’s party met behind closed doors Wednesday to discuss changes to the rules that would let them vote no-confidence in her leadership in the days to come.

Her Conservatives are set to get thumped in European Parliament elections Thursday in which the brand new Brexit Party of anti-EU populist Nigel Farage is running away with the polls.
ALSO READ: Police on red alert over plots to disrupt May 29 inauguration  
May has already promised to step down no matter the outcome of her fourth attempt to ram her version of Brexit through parliament in early June.

But even that sacrifice — and a package of sweeteners unveiled Wednesday that included a chance for lawmakers to get a second Brexit referendum — failed to win hearts and minds.

“It’s time for the prime minister to go,” Ian Blackford of the pro-EU Scottish National Party told May as she tried to defend her latest proposals in parliament.

May ignored the question and called the upcoming vote Britain’s last chance to leave the EU with a negotiated deal that can avert economic chaos.

“There are people who tell me I have compromised too much in the package being put forward, others telling me I have not compromised enough in the package being put forward,” she said with a note of exasperation in her voice.

“At some stage the House has to come together and we have to decide to go the distance together in order to deliver Brexit.”

But things look to go only worse for May in the days and weeks to come.

The European elections are being interpreted in Britain as a referendum on both Brexit and May’s ability to get the job done. They make grim reading for the government team.

The pro-EU group of Liberal Democrats was second on 19 percent. The main opposition Labour Party was on 13 percent and May’s Conservatives were lagging in fifth place with just seven percent.

“If we win these elections and win them well, we have a democratic mandate,” Farage said Thursday.

Liberal Democrat leader Vince Cable told supporters that a vote for his party was “a vote to stop Brexit”.

His group’s open rejection of Brexit appears to be resonating with pro-EU voters who would normally back one of the two main parties.

May is still hoping to stay in power long enough to somehow win parliament’s approval of the EU divorce terms before its summer recess begins on July 20.

This would let the country leave at the end of that month — as long as lawmakers reject a second referendum.

Otherwise the process could be delayed until October 31 — the deadline set by the EU — or even later if its leaders grant Britain another postponement.

UK media reports said that Wednesday’s meeting of rank-and-file Conservatives discussed changes in rules focused on pushing May out the door within days.














			
			Post Views: 
			60