The Federal government is to establish Raw Materials Resource and Information Centres in all the states in Nigeria to increase the contribution of the industrial sector to the nation’s gross domestic product.
The Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu disclosed this at the commissioning of the Raw Materials Research and Development Council headquarters phase II and Raw Materials Resources and Information Centre Tuesday 30th April, 2019.
According to Dr. Onu, the   Resource Centre modelled like a museum will help in the growth of micro, small and medium enterprises which will contribute to the diversification of the economy and create jobs.
The Minister called on the Director-General of RMRDC, Professor Husseni  Ibrahim   to make the Resource Center a hub of attraction to students in the primary, secondary and tertiary institutions in order to inspire them become scientists and engineers.
He Charged research agencies to do further research by taking raw materials from their natural state to products were they can make money especially in the area of agriculture and solid minerals so that Nigeria will not continue to rely on oil and gas.
ALSO READ: CBN approves private sector participation as CIT firms
Dr Onu, added that the commissioned RMDC headquarters Phase 11 will provide accommodation for staff enabling them to function properly and also enhance their productivity.
He noted that everything in the Resource Center is done to strengthen the relationship with the private sector because they drive the economy all over the world.
In his remark, the Director General of RMRDC Prof. Professor Husseni  Ibrahim noted that it has become more profitable to produce what we consume and consume what we produce to make any meaningful development of our dear country to take place.
According to the Prof. Ibrahim, many manufacturers today have over this period become conversant with adding value to raw materials thereby saving the nation billions of dollars in foreign exchange earnings.
This is due to information available and at the disposal of the Nigerian manufacturers of raw materials.








			
			Post Views: 
			44