A chieftain of the All Progressive Congress, APC, Chief Olusola Oke, has advised Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo state to apologise to the national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Ahmed Tinubu over series of attacks launched on his persons by some aides to the governor.
 
Reacting to statements credited to the aides of the governor, Oke in a statement signed by his media aide, Rotimi Ogunleye, admonished Akeredolu to call his aides to order over the incessant attacks on the leaders of the party, especially Tinubu.
ALSO READ: Jonathan remembers late President Yar’Adua 9 years after
“The attempt to vent their anger on Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, a respected leader of the APC, through indecorous interviews and press statements by the aides of governor Akeredolu, is unbecoming of a party man who has benefited from the government of the party that Asiwaju and other prominent leaders of APC labored so hard to put in place.
 
“Chief Oke is of the firm opinion that as APC members of the southwest extraction, party elders, especially the one that has made huge sacrifices capable of making the platform of APC to endure and the national chairman of our great party, deserve respect and honour at all times.
 
“The fact of what led some “aggrieved” persons to AA is in the public glare. Its effect ravaged the party from the northern senatorial district to the southern senatorial district. No amount of flowery narratives can blur the image of its devastating effect from the memory of Senator Yele Omogunwa, Senator Ajayi Boroffice, Hon Mayowa Akinfolarin, Hon Bunmi Tunji Ojo, Hon Adeogun, all who were the APC candidates in the last National Assembly elections. Nothing kills a party more than the monster of anti-party.
 
“Chief Oke believes that we can rise above this level of blame trade by accepting the reality of our situation, offer a remorseful apology to the appropriate quarters just like the party and the government did before the State House of Assembly elections, and our party will be great again.
 
“Lastly, it is unacceptable that the aides of governor Akeredolu will continue to throw invectives at the leaders of APC in the state and the national level without any restraint. That it has attained a usual trend suggests that the governor approves of their invectives otherwise, the governor should call his aide to order,” the statement read in part,” he said.

			
			Post Views: 
			68