A kidnapping kingpin and notorious armed robber, who recently masterminded the kidnap of the UBEC Chairman along Abuja- Kaduna road, Sumaila Sule, is dead following multiple bullet wounds he sustained during a deadly shootout with Lagos operatives attached to Operation Puff Adder.

The late suspect, alias Shaho, according to police statement who died on Saturday, was responsible for the many kidnappings and robberies in Kaduna and its environs.

In the statement signed by police spokesman, DCP Mba, police operatives were carrying out routine surveillance and raid of suspected criminal hide-outs, when they suddenly came under gun fire attack from a heavily armed criminal gang.

“The police team fought back gallantly, repelling the attack and eventually bringing SHAHO down, whilst his gang members fled. SHAHO was rushed to hospital, where he eventually died the next day.

He said acting on information elicited from the suspect before his death, police operatives, between the 18th and 19th of May 2019, carried out sweeping follow-up operations at different target locations.

“These coordinated operations led to the arrest of four other members of SHAHO’s gang and the recovery of three (3) AK 47 rifles. The arrested gang members include:  MUSA Hassan 26yrs,  Yau Umar 25yrs, Umar MUSA 22yrs and Muhammad SANI 28yrs , all males and natives of Rijiana Village Kachia LGA Kaduna State. SHAHO and his gang members have been on the radar of the intelligence community for a while, as they have been implicated in several high level kidnappings and other heinous crimes along Kaduna-Abuja road and beyond.
ALSO READ: Thugs invade APC Secretariat
“In a similar vein, a combined team of Operation Puff Adder operatives, comprising of the IGP Response Team, the Technical Intelligence Unit, the Police Mobile Force and the Special Anti-Robbery Squad have arrested another set of kidnappers who have been terrorizing citizens at Mubi axis of Adamawa state. One AK 47 rifle and twenty six (26) rounds of live ammunition were recovered from the gang.

“The suspects arrested are: Umaru Ibrahim  native of Yadi Buni, Yobe State ; Abdul Maina native of Maiha Adamawa State and Mohammed Abubakar native of Buni Yadi Yobe State. The suspects have all confessed to participating in numerous kidnapping and armed robbery operations within Adamawa State, including the kidnap and collection of a ransom of seven million naira from one Mallam Abdulahi Umoru of Hong L.G.A.”

Commending police operatives for their gallantry, as well as selfless service to the nation and humanity, the Inspector General of Police, Muhammed Adamu, reassured Nigerians that the war against crimes and criminality will soon be won.

The IGP called for continuous support for the police and other law enforcement agencies, promising that the security agencies will not rest on their oars till normalcy is restored in every part of Nigeria.













			
			Post Views: 
			171