Lagos State recorded the highest incidence of building collapses in the last seven years with about 38 collapses, a report by the Nigeria Institute of Civil Engineers (NICE), has stated.

Following Lagos, according to the report are Anambra which recorded 10 building collapse while Abuja and Kogi recoded 7 apiece respectively. Ogun, Kwara, Imo and Benue States which recorded three collapses each in eight years. Benin, Ondo, Delta, Akwa Ibom and Rivers States had two collapses each within the period under review. Also, Kaduna, Taraba, Abia, Plateau, Rivers Bayelsa, Sokoto, Oyo, Kano, Jigawa, Niger and Osun States experienced one building collapse each in eight years.

According to the report, the highest death recorded was when a 3 storey at Oloto street, Ebute Metta collapsed, killing 10 persons.

About 24 persons died while 133 injured across the 25 states in 2012, while 39 persons died, 120 sustained various degree of injury in 2013, just as the incidents were linked to heavy downpour, use of substandard materials and premature removal of concrete slab/decking formwork.

Further findings indicated that the highest death in 2014, was pronounced when a 6- storey hostel under construction at Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN), Ikotu Lagos collapsed on 12th September, leading to the death of 116 persons, mainly South Africans, while over 100 persons were injured due to faulty foundation.

The other incidents within the year was also linked to the use of substandard building materials as 132 died, while 163 sustained injury in 2014. In 2015, one person died when a 3-storey building at 87 Swamp Street Odunfa, Lagos Island collapsed on October 21.

The other incidents within the year was attributed to gas explosion and deserted building marked for demolition, just as 19 persons were injured. Only one death case and 19 injuries were recorded in 2015, considered to the lowest number of fatalities so far.

However in 2016, the highest death recorded was during the collapse of a church building (Reigners Bible Church) in Uyo, Akwa Ibom state on December 10.
ALSO READ: Nigeria loses 3,235 souls to building collapse in 12 years
About 50 persons died, while over 100 others were injured/trapped at the time of the incident, due to inadequate roof support and poor construction/ supervision. This was followed by the collapse of a 5-storey building at Lekki Garden, Lekki Phase 1 Ikate Lagos on March 8, where 35 persons died and several injured over poor quality construction materials, workmanship and supervision, increase in the number of floors from three to five.

The third highest incident recorded in the same year involved a 2-storey building under construction at Kano State University of Science and Technology, Wudil that collapsed on August 22, killing 20 persons and injuring five.

The entire incident in 2017 was rated as distressed building marked for demolition, weakened and dilapidated building. Also, in 2018, the highest fatality recorded was when a seven-storey building under construction in Port Harcourt, Rivers State collapsed on November 23, killing 17 persons due to overload.

About 23 persons died, while over 12 were injured all through the year. The collapses were attributed to weak and dilapidated structures likewise distressed buildings marked for demolition. In 2019, the highest collapse recorded from January to May involved the collapse of a three-storey residential/school building at 14 Massey Street, Ita Faji area of Lagos Island, on 13th March. About 20 persons died, while 43 others were injured.

Within the year, 58 persons died in different locality where similar incident occurred. They were linked to poor concrete casting and the developer’s failure to liaise with approving authorities before embarking on the project.









			
			Post Views: 
			78