Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has advised Nigerians not to let fear and despair hold them back as a nation as the country stand at the threshold of greatness.

The Vice President gave the charge at the 2019 inter-denominational inaugural service at the National Christian Centre, Abuja at the weekend.

While charging Nigerians to be confident of a brighter future, Prof. Osinbajo admonished Nigerians not to permit anyone to take advantage of the fault lines of tribe and religion in the country to divide the citizens.

“Our country stands today at the threshold of phenomenal greatness. If we look back or permit fear or despair, we will stumble. So we must go forward in the faith and confidence that Christ has given us.

“My short message is that the future is bright. The Bible says that the path of the just has a special place. It says in Proverbs 4:18, “But the path of the just is as the shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day.”

“The same Bible also says that the glory of the latter house shall be greater than the former. Everything that scripture tells us reminds us that because of the love of the Almighty God, especially those of us of the faith, our days will be better and better, brighter and brighter.

“This is the reason why I am so confident and the Bible urges us to be confident, and for this special reason, we of faith must be confident because the scriptures say that we are the light of the world.

“Where there is darkness and pain, we bring succor and hope, our ministry is a ministry of reconciliation, first with God, through Christ, then with all our fellow men and women, with Muslims, Hindus, and even those who deny the existence of God.

“Finally, we are men and women of faith, and we must continue to express the hope that we have been given by Christ Jesus. We must lead the nation with the full expectation of the hope we have been given and we have. We cannot afford to despair; we women and men of faith must not even speak words that sound like despair,” he said.







			
			Post Views: 
			85