Nigeria’s quest for a good outing at the Poland 2019 FIFA U20 World Cup received a huge boost on Sunday when the Nigerian ambassador to Poland, His Excellency Eric Bell-Gam paid a visit tothe team at their Vienna House Hotel abode.

The Flying Eagles flew into Katowice, Poland from Munich, Germany on
Sunday where they were welcomed by a few Nigerians and then driven
under police escort to their hotel in the heart of Katowice.

Ambassador Bell-Gam, who was accompanied by some consular staff of the
Nigerian embassy in Warsaw was received at the Flying Eagles’ hotel by
the leader of the Nigeria delegation, Mr. Abdulrafiu Yusuf and the team’s
secretary Aliyu Lawal Ibrahim. The ambassador charged the Flying Eagles to go all out and make Nigeria proud when the competition starts, reiterating that himself and the Nigerian community in Poland are fully behind the team.

ALSO READ:Flying Eagles round up Germany camp

“The mood is very high at the embassy because of our expectations of
Nigeria participating at this event (FIFA U20 World Cup),” Bell-Gram told National Daily “The expectation is high as the Polish expect a lot from our team and we know that we are capable of doing it and we expect something good
in terms of performance from the team.

“Let me start by saying that it is an honour that during my period as the
ambassador to Poland, the country will be hosting the FIFA U20 World
Cup and my country is participating. I find it to be a good thing that
Nigeria qualified,” he added. The ambassador also assured the Flying Eagles that Nigerians in Poland are solidly behind the team and despite challenges with getting match tickets, he promised to do his best to make sure that the issue is sorted out.

“Nigerians in Poland are aware of this event and there are have been a
plan to secure tickets in bulk but there is a little challenge,” he
revealed. “The challenge is we could not get the tickets in bulk, which would
have allowed us to throw our unflinching support to the team.

			
			Post Views: 
			51