Ahead of the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly, groups under the aegis of Presidential Support Committee (PSC) and South East Equity Alliance, made up of leaders of the All Progressives Congress in Southeast zone have said that it will be an injustice for the South West to produce Vice President of the country and still wants to lay claim to the speakership position.
Engr. Prince Chamberlain Adiaso, the Southeast Zonal Coordinator of Presidential Support Committee (PSC), therefore urged have urged the leadership of the party to cede the position of the Speaker to the zone.
He expressed the groups’ unalloyed support for Hon Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, the House of Representatives member-elect, representing Okigwe South to clinch the office of the Speaker, Federal House of Representative in the 9th Assembly.
The Coordinator further said, “Barr. Emeka Nwajiuba being a detribalized Nigerian, should be considered for the position so that he can become a rallying point for the whole APC in the South East geopolitical region.”
He pointed out that the people of Southeast assisted President Muhammad Buhari to get 25% votes, noting that zoning the speakership to the southeast was in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s promise of inclusive government.
He said “Nwajiuba is best qualified and most suited for the position because of his legislative experience,” and emphasized that “such zoning has become necessary, considering the fact, that APC has made progress in 2019 elections.”
While speaking over the speakership race, Chief Nwoha Amaechi, Spokesperson to South East Equity Alliance and former Speaker, Imo State House of Assembly, said Emeka Nwajiuba’s cognate experience in legislation makes him credible to be the speaker of the House of Representatives.
Nwoha seized the platform to call on the APC and Nigerians to support the clamour for a progressive and fair national leadership equation.
The former lawmaker said that a Speaker of Igbo extraction was necessary for not only political fairness but natural justice considering the 25 per cent votes given to Buhari in the last election.
Also speaking, Barr. Kingsley Onunuju said the only way to put an end to issues of IPOB and MASOB agitation was to ensure that position like Speakership was zoned to the Southeast.
He said Nwajiuba’s Speakership would increase the popularity of APC in the South-East.





			
			Post Views: 
			71