Northern State chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has applauded the Nigerian Government for securing the release of Zainab Habibu Aliyu who was arrested in Saudi Arabia for alleged drug trafficking.
In a statement signed by the Public Relations Officer, Northern CAN, Rev. Joseph Hayab, on Tuesday, the body decried the unjust imprisonment of innocent Nigerians who have suffered harsh punishment for offences they have not committed.
CAN, however, canvassed for the swift release of Leah Sharibu, who was abducted from Government Girls Technical Science College, Dapchi, Yobe State and has been in Boko Haram captivity for over a year.
The Christian body admonished the President to treat all Nigerians equally.
The statement reads: “CAN Northern states rejoices with the parents of Zainab Aliyu and the government of our country for securing her release after she was arrested and detained in Saudi Arabia for allegations of drug trafficking.
“It is sad that many innocent Nigerians are suffering for a crime they know nothing about.
“This prompt effort by government is commendable and should be sustained for all and in the future, because this is what we want to see from our leaders in this country.
“But as we rejoice about this development, we are also compelled to ask this important question: Are all Nigerians equal or some are more equal than others?
ALSO READ: FG secures release of Zainab Aliyu
“We are aware that many innocent citizens of our country have been arrested, some killed and others are still in detention; but we have not heard any directives from Mr. President to his Attorney General to take action about them with this kind of urgency.
“If we want our citizens to be proud of their government and country, then we need to show equal concern about what happens to everyone in this country.
“We cannot also celebrate the release of Zainab and forget Leah Sharibu who did not commit any crime but has been in captivity for over a year now.
“We, therefore, appeal to President Buhari to direct his security agencies to double their efforts and get Leah released and reunited with her parents.








			
			Post Views: 
			55