The Nigerian Army on Tuesday challenged Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers state to provide the evidence that General Officer Commanding (GOC) 6 Division, Major General Jamil Sarham, was divulging details of the state’s security meetings to criminals in the state.

Recall that Wike through his Special Assistant on Electronic Media, Simeon Nwakaudu, had recently released a video clip where the accusations were made against General Sarham, who is also the Commander, Operation Delta Safe.

In a statement signed by the Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, Col. Aminu Iliyasu, on Tuesday, the Army said there was no truth in Wike’s claims against the GOC 6 division.

The statement noted that Iliyasu is not a member of the Rivers State Security Council, and has never been in the same room with Governor Wike.

“The clip was purportedly released on the 15th of May 2019 by one Simeon Nwakaudu, Special Assistant to the Rivers State Governor on Electronic Media in which the Governor made unfounded false allegations against the GOC 6 Division.
ALSO READ: We’ll declare Niger Delta Republic if… – Militants
“Although Nigerian Army do not wish to join issues with the Governor, yet it is important to strongly state that the allegations are false and figment of the Governor Wike’s imagination. It is a deliberate effort to tarnish the towering image of the Chief of Army Staff and the General Officer Commanding 6 Division. Needless to say that in response to many accusations against the Division, already some responsible good individuals and groups in Nigeria have exposed the antics of Governor Wike against the leadership of the Division and the NA.

“It is imperative to state the campaign of calumny against General Sarham and the Nigerian Army leadership by Governor Wike did not start today. Recall that on 22nd February 2019, Governor Wike brazenly alleged that there was an attempt to exterminate his life by assassins organised by the GOC 6 Division. As weighty as the allegation was, we are yet to know any action taken by Mr Wike that guarantees his safety. Mr Wike has since failed to use civilised legitimate options to prove his allegations against Maj Gen Sarham.

“On the mischievous accusation against General Sarham leaking proceeds of State Security Council Meetings to criminals in Rivers State. Mr. Wike knows well that Maj Gen Sarham is not a member of the Rivers State Security Council, neither has he ever approached the gates of Rivers State Government House since his assumption of office as the GOC 6 Division. Mr. Wike only came face to face with General Sarham on the 15th of January 2019 during the 2019 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Parade at Isaac Boro Park.”







			
			Post Views: 
			35