A 23-years-old 200 level student from the Department of Marketing, University of Jos, Mercy Naan, has been found dead in Room number 23 of Zion Hostel in Naraguta. Miss Naan was said to have been reported missing by her parents to the Security Department of University of Jos since on the 3rd of May, 2019.
The Plateau State Command of the Nigeria Police, who confirmed this in a statement signed by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Tyopev Matthias Terna, said the student’s corpse was recovered on Sunday afternoon after students raised the alarm of a nasty odour coming out of her room.
“On 05/05/019 at about 1530hrs, the Angwan Rogo Police Division, Plateau State Command in Jos received a distress call from the Security Department, University of Jos to the effect that on same date at about 15OOhrs, some students of the institution raised alarm over an unusual odour coming out from Room number 23 Zion Hostel in Naraguta, University of Jos.
“After the report, a combine team, comprising of the Police, the University Security and the Medical personnel of the University mobilised to the scene of crime.
On arrival, the suspected hostel door was forced open and the motionless body of one Mercy Naan ‘f’ a 23 years old 200 level student from the Department of Marketing was seen and recovered to the University Clinic. “She was confirmed dead by the medical doctor on duty at the University Clinic and her corpse has been deposited at the Anatomy Mortuary of the same University for Autopsy.
Preliminary investigation further revealed that Miss Mercy was reported missing by her parents to the Security Department, University of Jos on 03/05/19,” the statement partly read. The statement added that detectives of the Plateau State Police Command have since commenced investigation to unravel the mystery behind the death.
ALSO READ :UNIPORT ritual murderer Dike, re-arrested by police in Jos
Meanwhile, when contacted by our reporter, the university’s Deputy Registrar, Information and Publications, Abdullahi Abdullahi, said investigation was on by the school to authenticate the identity of the student.
Abdullahi said after the student is fully identified and her matriculation number and other details determined, the school will then contact her parents first to inform them before coming up with any official statement.
Before then, he said, any position on the incident could be based on speculation, adding that there were many parties that would be involved in the exhaustive investigation, like the police and other relevant bodies.

			
			Post Views: 
			85