The President of the Nigeria Football Federation Amaju Pinnick, his vice presidents, and one other officially have been alleged of misappropriating $8,400 FIFA 2014 money, and sloshing around N4 billion belonging to the NFF.
Pnnick and one of his vice presidents were also accused of conflict of interest and no-declaration of asset.
The Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property led by Mr Okoi Obono-Obla instituted the 17-count charge against the NFF president and his Vice Presidents Seyi Akinwumi, Shehu Dikko, exco Yusuff Fresh, and the Federation’s secretary, Sanusi Mohammed.
The case, marked FHC/ABJ/CR/93/2019, was filed before the Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday.
The prosecution accused Pinnick of criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust, theft, criminal misappropriation in respect of their handling of the $8,400 and N4bn belonging to the NFF.
The offences were said to be contrary to and punishable under various provisions of the Penal Code (Cap 105) LFN.
Pinnick and his co-defendants were also accused of failure and neglect to declare their assets to the SPIRPP, contrary to and punishable under section 3(3)(a) of the Recovery of Public Property (Special Provisions) Act, 2004.
The NFF boss was also accused of appointing a company he had interest in, Financial Derivatives Limited, as a financial consultant to the NFF. This is contrary to Section 5 of the Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act, and it is punished under sections 1(2) and 10(1)(a) of the Recovery of Public Property (Special Provisions) Act, 2004.
Dikko too was said to have allowed a company in which he has a stake, Mediterranean Sports Limited, to be appointed as a marketing agent to NFF in violation of the same provision of the same Act.”
The Pinnick case first heaved into sight last year in the heat of his leadership tussle with a club owner and rival Chris Giwa, but it was quickly dismissed and buried by his legal team headed by Festus Keyamo, the spokesperson for the Buhari Campaign Organisation.
The world’s biggest football body, FIFA, now one of the most corrupt global entities, also threatened to sanction Nigeria if Pinnick was ruffled by the government.

			
			Post Views: 
			78