The Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has raised alarm over the safety of its governorship candidate in Osun state, Senator Ademola Adeleke.

In a statement signed by the party’s spokesman on Sunday, Kola Ologbondiyan, it accuses the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) of using some elements in the police to bully its candidate in a bid to make him abandon the fight for his ‘stolen mandate’.
Ologbondiyan in the statement said the party has new information revealing how the APC is seeking to forcefully hound Adeleke into a police station where he will be incarcerated and put out of circulation before the determination of the matters in court.
He said that apart from executing the alleged APC script, some elements in the police have no other reason for continuously hounding Senator Adeleke, as he is already in court for all the frivolous allegations preferred against him.

The statement said, “If they truly want Senator Adeleke for any new issue connected with the charges for which he is already in court, it should present such before the court instead of resorting to bullying.
ALSO READ: Adeleke’s WAEC certificate: What happened in court on Thursday
“Nigerians will recall that the PDP had earlier alerted of threats to Senator Adeleke’s life. These threats have not only continued unabated but have heightened with this renewed hounding by these elements in the police, who are being used by the APC.

“Our party cautions that Nigerians are not ready to accept any excuse from anybody should Senator Adeleke suddenly becomes a victim of accidental discharge, sudden disappearance or failed health. They know whom to hold responsible.

“The APC should end this siege on Senator Adeleke and accept the fact that he has the mandate of the people of Osun state as their governor and no form of machination will subvert this reality.

“The PDP, therefore, charges the Inspector General of Police, Adamu Mohammed to rein-in his men on issues related to Senator Adeleke’s determination to retrieve his governorship mandate, which was stolen by the APC”.








			
			Post Views: 
			71