The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Imo state in the 2019 general election, Senator Hope Uzodinma, says the immediate past governor of the state, Rochas Okorocha will soon discover that he is finished politically.
 
In a statement through Declan Emulumba, the Director of Media and Special Duties, Senator Hope Uzodinma Campaign Organisation, the APC candidate insisted that nemesis, of alleged evils the former governor supposedly committed, have caught up with him and that he is currently in a political pit.
 
Okorocha only handed over power to the new governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha, of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), on Wednesday, May 29.
 
The former governor’s dumping of Uzodinma as APC governorship candidate in Imo, to support his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, who was the Action Alliance governorship candidate, has been blamed by many as the reason APC lost to the PDP in the state.
ALSO READ: Okorocha regrets dumping PDP for APC
Uzodinma, who is currently challenging the outcome of the results in court said in the statement, that: “If there is anybody that is actually shameless in Imo State, that person is Okorocha. For a man who was governor in Imo for eight years and had to rely on violence to be declared winner of a senatorial election, shows that he is finished politically.
 
“In all these, was APC indicted of any electoral offence?” he asked.
 
“From available records, which are now before the tribunal, I defeated Okorocha and his son-in-law in all the local government areas. Nemesis has caught up with him that is why he is now in a political pit.”
 
He further claimed that Okorocha had always depended on rigging, violence and manipulation of results to win elections all his life.
 
He said what happened during the last election in which the former governor was supposedly declared winner of Orlu Senatorial election under duress is an example of how Okorocha always win elections.
 
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is yet to give Okorocha a certificate of return as senator-elect owing the aforementioned allegation Uzodinma made reference to.

			
			Post Views: 
			84