The governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai has called on President Muhamadu Buhari to beware of overambitious members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), advising the president to deal decisively with such members.

El-Rufai spoke in Ikoyi, Lagos during an interactive session with members of The Bridge Club, who are mainly businessmen and captains of industries, said such members, if not cautioned will make government difficult for President Buhari during his second term in office.

El-Rufai, while regretting that the APC lost some states to the opposition on account of the inordinate ambitions of some members of the party argued that it was wrong for the APC members to be scheming ahead of 2023 when President Buhari’s second term had not even taken off.
ALSO READ: El-Rufai may resign, lobbies for Chief of Staff to President Buhari
“There were a lot of internal crises in the APC; those crises had nothing to do with the 2019 elections; they were all about positioning for 2023. You know politicians can be very strategic; as illiterate as some of them can be, they are very strategic, they can think far ahead of you.


“So, those 2023 aspirations had been busy at work, creating pockets of support that had unintended consequences. I can mention a few states that we lost because of these kinds of aspirations. Some of the things led to unintended consequences and we paid for it.

“It is my view that President Muhammadu Buhari must be firm and decisive in dealing with these overambitious elements that will make his second term difficult from day one unless curtailed. The President has to be very decisive in dealing with such people.”

Recall that there has been rumour on the ambition of the National leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to take over from President Buhari in 2023.

The development has since been generating different ripples despite the fact that the former Lagos governor has not made an official pronouncement.










			
			Post Views: 
			81