By Ediale Kingsley

Dear Casandra,

I deserve you. Or don’t I?

I do think I so deserve you. So much sacrifice I have made for this love. So many efforts. Please agree with me. Do I deserve you?

Loving you has kept my focus since finding you. I really wasn’t this dedicated to a course before. I have never had a girl friend for more than 7 weeks. I never had a job for more than 3 months (not that I even need to work).

I am a restless demon.

Until meeting you, I was.

Life has changed. My demons are cast out, my spirit has never been this calm.

Is this love?

It’s the first time for me.

I mean, I never felt this way.

Also never felt this sad. I think I may never have you for myself. You are too wide.

Perhaps that’s why I love you. Same reason I am sad.

It’s my 6th month in this city. All I have known is you. For this first half of my planned 1-year stay in Portugal, I have been heavily distracted.

No distraction has been this important. I am here on a paid assignment. I am here to do research for the richest black man in the world.   My sponsor wants to establish a branch of his conglomerate here. I am afraid things have gone bad.

I am consumed by your existence and thoughts. Can’t cope. I can’t live for 24 hours without you. But is this leading anywhere?

Since meeting you where I went to buy a camera for my job. I have become your personal photographer. All I wanted was you to stand and take a pose while I tested the newly acquired item.

You obliged. But you didn’t stand. You walked up to me, kissed me and that was the moment you cast the spell on me. At first, I thought you were a prostitute. But I have discovered you don’t do this for money.

You just enjoy meeting new people and having sex with them for free. You lured me to your house. I foolishly followed. At the back of my mind, I contemplated.

“Will I stay all night with her. Or have her for the entire weekend?”

I spoke to my head.

But I ended up staying with you for the weekend. Sex with you is culturally scientific.

You make sex to the soul and independently disconnect from the affection. Yet you leave your partner emotionally handicapped.

I am lost. I am gone.

Why am I still with you many weekends after? Is it because you didn’t take my money? Is it because I was wrong to think you were a sex hawker?

You hawk sex, but for sport. Not for pay, just a hobby. I have photographed you making love to many men. Since I won’t let you be. You have asked me to help you make your hobby more adventurous.

So every weekend, we are alone in my hotel or in your house. Other weekdays, I go with you like a fool. We go sex hunting for you. You make your catch. Have sex with the catch and I photographed.

Those who don’t mind me watching and photographing allow me to do my work. Those who refuse, give me the extra work of having to go set up from afar.

Yeah, most times I am a sniper. Taking photo shots from afar with strong lenses penetrating your windows or the public spot of your choice.

I am a fool. An idiot. See what I have become.

But I enjoy my rewards. In the nights we cuddle. In the weekends, we have scientific sex. This is all I have done for 6months in Portugal.

My sponsor is my dad. Yeah, my dad is the richest black man. He won’t kill me. He will be disappointed. But family is family, that’s what he always says. (I am a secret son. Something like John Stone).

So I am not worried about my dad’s project. I worry about my heart. Will I do this all my life. Truth is I don’t see any other life without you.

I genuinely love you. Your smell. Your smile. Your hair. Your voice. Your sex. Yeah, your sex. Especially that.

Your lovemaking skill is soul touching. Soul capturing. What do I do? You don’t love me. You have said this for the umpteenth time. You said you do not love. You said you are a witch.

In Africa, witches suck blood and do terrible things. In Hollywood, I see witches fly on broomsticks and do bad stuff.

But in Portugal, witches track persons and have intense sexual intercourse with them. Well, I haven’t wasted my stay in Portugal. I have discovered a thing. I have learned this.

But I don’t see many witches in Portugal. Are you the only witch here in this country? Did satan send only a witch to Portugal? I have done my findings. I haven’t been lucky to find another Portugal witch.

So I guess it’s one witch for Portugal.

And if my dream is to come to pass. They will soon have no witch around. I’d like to show you to mama. But mama won’t be interested until I plant a little witch in your womb. Only then will there be a big wedding in the northern part of Nigeria.

Your Witch Cum spotter,
Hadamu (Ediale inks)

#ForTheCulture

P.S: Please, In Nigeria you shall not practice your witchcraft.







			
			Post Views: 
			72