Super Eagles  and Stoke City Midfielder, Etebo Oghenekaro Peter has advised every kid who has a dream of becoming a professional Footballer not to toil with  his or her education, adding that the two can work in tandem.
At an event put together by SpringSoca Academy in Lagos, in conjunction with Etebo Oghenekaro Peter Foundation tagged “A day mentorship programme with Oghenekaro Etebo”, the Stoke City 2018/2019 Player of the Season brought to the fore the need to distinguish oneself with education.
He appealled to over 250 kids present to put God first and be determined.
“If from the ghetto in Warri, I could go all the way to Europe, you can also do better with time, commitment, hard work and God on your side,” he said.
The former Warri Wolves midfielder encouraged the kids to ensure they build on their area of keen interest, stressing that everyone will not play football.
“Certainly, there are doctors, lawyers and other professionals that will spring forth from this gathering, life is not all about football”.
“I had the opportunity of playing football and the privilege to represent the national team, but education is a vital tool to securing a brighter future even after Football, Etebo is in the mix now, he has said it all and I urge you all to be up and doing in all spheres”.
The President of SpringSoca Academy Mr. Dapo Emmanuel appreciated Etebo Oghenekaro for coming around and for always giving back to the society in different forms and manner.
He appreciated the coordinator of Etebo Oghenekaro Peter Foundation who is a Nigeria Football Federation licensed intermediary for his assistance towards making the event a reality.
Mr Endurance Iseri Ogbemudia is also the Managing Partner of Myron Topclass Sports Outfits, the agency that manages SpringSoca Academy, Etebo Oghenekaro, Daniel Akpeyi, among other notable footballers.
Eddie Iseri Ogbemudia told National Daily that the foundation’s commitment towards giving back to the society and also appreciated Africa Cup of Nations bound Etebo for his kind gestures every time he is called upon to render services to humanity.
 

			
			Post Views: 
			71