President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday departs Nigeria for Saudi Arabia to attend the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) Summit in Makkah.
National Daily learned that the 14th session of the Summit Conference of the OIC, scheduled to hold on Friday, May 31, will be hosted by King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and attended by Heads of State and Governments of Member States.
According to the OIC secretariat, the summit to be convened under the theme, “Makkah al-Mukarramah Summit: Hand in Hand toward the Future,” seeks to develop a unified stance on events in the Islamic world.
The Senior Special Assistant to the President in Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, explained that President Buhari is expected to address the forum and underscore the need for member countries to unite and work together to combat common challenges such as terrorism and violent extremism.
He added that the President will also push forward themes that have been at the forefront of his domestic and international priorities, including reviving the Lake Chad Basin, investing in Nigeria to create jobs and financing for development.
ALSO READ: Islamisation agenda: Fani-Kayode blast Lamido
On the margins of the summit, the Nigerian leader will hold bilateral meetings with world leaders to promote increased cooperation and collaboration on issues of mutual concern.
President Buhari, who is expected to return to the country on June 2nd, will be accompanied by Governors Mohammed Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State, Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State and Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State.
Also on the delegation are the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Mustapha Suleiman; Director-General, National Intelligence Agency, NIA, Ambassador Ahmed Rufa’i Abubakar; Director-General, National Information Technology Development Agency, NITDA, Dr. Isa Ali Pantami; and the Chairman, National Hajj Commission of Nigeria, NAHCON, Abdullahi Mukthar.
President Buhari becomes the third Nigerian leader to attend the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, OIC, conference in person, after the late Alhaji Umaru Yar’Adua and Dr Goodluck Jonathan.

			
			PV: 
			0