Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi state
        
 


 
Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State has taken his lobby for the governorship ticket of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for the November election to the residence of APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, at Asokoro, Abuja.
After the closed door meeting, an APC leader was said to have remarked that the meeting was not planned, noting that Governor Bello only met Tinubu at the three-day retreat for returning governors and governors-elect in Abuja. The APC leader said that Governor Bello used the opportunity to walk up to Tinubu and told him he will come to see him later in the evening at his Asokoro residence.
“It was an impromptu meeting. Governor Yahaya Bello ran into him at the governors’ retreat. Asiwaju Tinubu chaired the first session on act of governance and effective leadership. After the session, the Kogi governor said he was coming to greet him at his residence and he came. Any governor that wants to see Asiwaju Tinubu as the national leader of the party is free to come and see him.
ALSO READ: Yahaya Bello prostrates before Buhari, Tinubu to save job
“There was nothing spectacular about the meeting. It was very brief though I am not aware of what they discussed because it was a closed door meeting. It was only the two men in the room,” he had declared.
An aide of the Governor was said to have remarked that the meeting between Tinubu and his principal was very positive. Governor Bello’s aide was said to have expressed that Tinubu leader promised to work with Yahaya Bello to ensure APC retains Kogi State.
The aide had maintained that Governor Bello promised his allegiance to Tinubu in return for his support for the APC ticket.
“The meeting was positive. They had private discussions and Asiwaju Tinubu congratulated him for the victory of the party and assured him the leadership of the party will work with him to ensure APC retains Kogi State.
“He was excited about the visit and the governor also pledged his allegiance to the national leader of the party. The national leader said Kogi is very central to the APC” the aide declared.

			
			Post Views: 
			70