The National Executive Council of the Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) has announced that the 5th edition of its Telecom Executives and Regulators Forum, which is one of its flagship events have been fixed for July 11, 2019 at the prestigious Fourpoints by Sheraton, Victoria Island, Lagos.
The Executive Secretary, Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) Ajibola Olude stated this in a statement released over the weekend.
According to him, “the National Executive Council led by its President, Mr. Olusola Teniola is pleased to extend invitation to all relevant stakeholders such as; Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), National Information Technology Development Agency, MNOs/IDAs Operators, PNL/Fixed Line Operators, FINTECH/e-Commerce Operators, OEMs, Interconnect/Data Centre Operators, Towers/Base Stations Providers, Consulting/Internet Services Providers (ISP), Value Added Services Providers (VAS) and Equipment Dealers.
“The Association is of the opinion that today’s telecom and ICT sector in Nigeria is built on continuous strategic engagements amongst all players in the sector and the projected growth can only be realized if these engagements continue.
“ATCON is providing this platform for the purpose of accelerating and harnessing the changes that are taking place in the industry in order to grow the industry for all its teeming members who have made huge investments in the Nigerian telecom and ICT sector.
“The forum is set to discuss and proffer lasting solutions to the following topical industry issues; Formulation of Policy and Regulation for OTTs: Challenges and Prospects; Funding Telecoms Investment in Nigeria: How would the deficit in the Nigerian telecom infrastructure be financed;
“Eradication of the influx of cloned and fake phones and other telecoms devices in Nigeria: The role of NCC, Nigerian Custom, SON, and other Relevant Government Agencies; Regulation and Policies on Cloud Computing and Cybersecurity threats in Nigeria.
“There is a saying that says “change is inevitable”, the truth is that our industry is changing on daily basis or we can say that the industry is being disrupted by new technological innovations and for our members to stay afloat and remain players in the industry, new business models must be evolved by our members but regulation and policies also need to be reviewed, fine tuned and strengthened so that all and sundry can remain in business.
“The business thought leaders in the Nigeria telecom and ICT sector have been invited to do justice to all the topics earlier mentioned.
“Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman/CEO, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and his counterparts in the person of Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Patami, Director General, National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) would deliver keynote addresses respectively.”
The release further stated that “ATCON has carefully selected few industry leaders that would serve as panel chairs for the four segments of the panel sessions.
“These are; Ms. Funke Opeke, MD/CEO, MainOne -Formulation of Policy and Regulation for OTTs: Challenges and Prospects; Mr. Yusuf Kazure, MD/CEO, Galaxy Backbone -Funding Telecoms and ICT Investment in Nigeria: How would the deficit in the Nigerian telecom infrastructure be financed?; Eradication of the influx of cloned and fake phones and other telecoms devices in Nigeria: The role of NCC, Nigerian Custom, SON, and other Relevant Government Agencies and Mr. Ayotunde Coker, MD/CEO, Rack Centre Limited –Regulation and Policies on Cloud Computing and Cybersecurity threats in Nigeria.
“The panel discussants are also made up of leading figures in the Nigerian telecom and ICT sector.
“Other relevant organizations invited are; Standard Organization of Nigeria (SON), Banks, Nigerian Customs Service and so on.
“ATCON firmly believes that this very important platform would provide a great opportunity for all critical stakeholders in the industry to leverage on this rare opportunity to share their views, contribute their expertise and experiences in discussion about best practices in their jurisdictions with a focus to grow and sustain the industry.”

			
			Post Views: 
			76