By Olanrewaju Adesanya
Governor Babajide Olushola Sanwoolu,the 6th democratically elected Governor and 15th Governor of Lagos State,  has revealed his poise to constitute an executive cabinet, peopled with the most qualified individuals soon.
In his inaugural address, titled Awakening a greater Lagos, Sanwoolu harped on the need for all Lagosians to team up with his administration to engender a much more prosperous Lagos.
“This is how I see our home and this is how I shall run my government. I shall select the best and most qualified people to hold positions in the government.
“As your Governor, I know fully well who I am, because I know where I am from. More importantly, I know where I am headed. I have been a part of this progressive journey since its very inception. I know first-hand the concerted efforts that went into planning so many of the innovations we now see and enjoy,” he added.
According to Sanwoolu, he would remain committed to the growth of a better Lagos.
“I shall remain forever loyal to the aspirations of the people and to the developmental blueprint that has brought so much success to our state since 1999.
I shall never deviate from that which best serves the people of Lagos in our journey for progressive governance and economic development.
ALSO READ: Emir Sanusi under renewed siege
“I say to you all let us explore how we can best establish a harmony of interests and avoid the growing tendency to focus on those things that differentiate and divide one Lagosian from another.
“I am too focused on moving Lagos forward to give a second thought to where a person may have come from. As long as you are animated by the spirit of achievement, cooperation and tolerance,then you are Lagosian. This is my motto.
“My door shall remain open to all. I shall seek the advice of the learned,the wise and the ordinary Lagosian, for in the common man resides much wisdom and fairness of thought”. Sanwoolu affirm.
“However, make no mistake, the success of our development agenda must be a shared and collective responsibility. I implore us all as Lagosians to rededicate ourselves to contribute our individual quotas positively and responsibly in this new drive to reform our society and take it to a higher pedestal.
“We must imbibe the spirit of being our brothers’ keeper in our daily lives at home, work, recreation and worship centers, and most especially on our roads.
He also premised his administration area of focus on six pillars of development agenda acronym ‘T.H.E.M.E.S’.
T-Traffic Management and Transportation,H-Health and Environment, E-Education and Technology,M-Making Lagos a 21st Century Economy, E-Entertainment and Tourism,S-Security and Governance.
Officially Governor Babajide Olushola Sanwoolu and the Deputy Governor Dr.Olufemi Hamzat were inaugurated to take charge of the administration of Lagos State for the next four years.
Reminiscent of what obtained in Ogun and Oyo State,where Senator Ibikunle Amosun of  Ogun and Senator Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo were deliberately absent at the inauguration ceremonies of their successors, former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode was also absent having done a secretive handover ceremony a day before.
Ambode’s excuse for not attending the inauguration is made available to newsmen in a statement, by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Habib Aruna.
“I have already formally handed over reins of power in the State to the new Governor in a most cordial and convivial ceremony at the State House yesterday. The formal inauguration should have Mr. Sanwo-Olu as the star of the day. I don’t think that glory should be shared with him by my presence.”
 
The National leader of the All Progressive Congress Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was represented at the event by his better half Senator Oluremi Tinubu amidst all other stakeholders.
At exactly 11.32am the Chief Judge of Lagos, Justice Opeyemi Oke administer the oath of office on Mr Babajide Olushola Sanwoolu as the 15th Governor of Lagos State.
The duo who had been privileged to serve at one time or the other within the corridors of power in the state signaled an unprecedented continuum.
The citations of the new men reveals a lot about the duo as they were divinely ushered in with prayers from the General Overseer of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministry, Dr. Daniel Olukoya,seconded by the Chief Imam of Lagos, who gave a lengthy prayer.
The venue of the inauguration,Tafawa Balewa Square was filled to the brim as the Governor inspects the guard of honour and also moved round to appreciate all present.
Earlier in his welcome address, the State Head of Service (HOS), Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola commended Lagosians for demonstrating a commitment to the sustenance of democratic culture, processes, ideals, norms and values irrespective of political leanings, tribal affiliation, religious persuasion, gender, language, sectional interests and socio-economic backgrounds.
He said the inauguration was in accordance with the Constitution which provides for the election of leaders every four years, noting that the day would remain indelible in the history of the State.
“As the new administration takes office in Lagos State for the next four years in accordance with the provision of Section 180 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended in 2010), this day shall remain momentous in the record books because generations of Lagosians will mark today as a watershed in the continued march of Lagos State towards its glorious destiny of socio-economic development as one of the greatest cities in the world,’’ the HOS said.
 
 
 
 
 
 

			
			Post Views: 
			100