Senator Ademola Adeleke, candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2018 Osun State governorship election, has dragged the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, to court.

Sued along the IGP are the Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Zone 11, Mr Leye Oyebade; an Assistant Commissioner of Police, Simon Lough; and an Assistant Superintendent of Police, John Faluyi.

Adeleke took the action in response to his alleged unlawful detention by the Nigerian Police Force (NPC) in Abuja on May 6, 2019.

In a suit he filed before Osun State High Court, through his counsel, Kanmi Ajibola, Adeleke is praying for enforcement of his fundamental rights to personal liberty and right to freedom of movement.

Adeleke has been in court challenging the declaration of Adegboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the winner of the Osun governorship election.

He is also facing alleged examination falsification charges.

An Abuja Federal High court had earlier ordered the police not to arrest or detain the senator for any of the allegations leveled against him pending the determination of the substantive case.
ALSO READ: Another APC gov takes over Nigeria Gov. Forum
The senator however, was arrested and detained by the police supposedly not minding the court order.

In his suit therefore, he asked the court to impress it on the respondents the earlier order made by the Federal High Court, Abuja on the matter.

Presiding on the matter on Wednesday, Justice Falona made reference to the ruling of Justice I.E. Ekwor of the Federal High Court, Abuja, who granted Adeleke permission to travel to the United States on May 7 for medical attention.

He also observed that the ruling of the Federal High Court had prevented the respondents from arresting or detaining the applicant.

The judge said he had to allow the order made by Ekwor J. of the Federal High Court, Abuja, in charge No, FHC/ABJ/CR/156/2018 on May 3, 2019 to continue to operate.

He then issued Form 48 against the police, asking them to take notice of consequence of disobedience of court order.

The matter was later adjourned till June 17, 2019.











			
			Post Views: 
			92