Kidnap 3 in Katsina

Bandits in the early hours of Tuesday attacked two communities in Kauran Namoda Local Government Area of Jigawa, killing 26 people in cold blood.
The attackers it was gathered stormed Kabaje and Tunga communities around 5.00am following a mob action of a wife of one of the bandits, called Anas.
The incident, it was learnt, led to the killing of the couple’s child and three other persons, prompting the bandits to mobilize and killed 23 persons in a reprisal attack few minutes after.
Anas said to be a resident of unguwar Sarki in Kabaje was suspected to be one of the informants to the bandits.
Chairman of Kauran Namoda local government Alhaji Lawal Abdullahi confirmed the incident.
In another related development, some bandits have also reportedly kidnapped three persons in a fresh attack on Dan-Ali village in Danmusa Local Government Area of Katsina State.
ALSO READ: Sudan protesters strike as deadlock with military persists
The attackers also carted away money and valuables in the attack.
According to a resident of the community, Malam Tukur Dan Ali, the bandits in their dozens arrived in the village around 1:25 am on Tuesday and kidnapped three young persons, one of which is women.
He added that the attackers shot into the air to scare residents.
“The bandits made several gunshots sporadically and made their way into the houses of Alhaji Musa and Alhaji Gambo where they kidnapped the three persons,” he explained.
He said the bandits had however released one of the victims, Hajiya Fatima unconditionally.
Bandits attacks and kidnappings have been on the rise in Katsina State. The level of insecurity recently led members of the state to call on the Federal government to declare a state of emergency on the state as quickly as possible.
President Muhammadu Buhari in reaction to the spate of attacks ordered the security chiefs to commence an investigation. He also assured that the government will restore peace and stability in the state.
Meanwhile, Governor Aminu Masari has signed into law mandatory death sentence for anyone convicted of cattle rustling or kidnapping in Katsina State.

			
			Post Views: 
			92