Traffic managers deployed from the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), has within 48 hours of presidential directive reduced the traffic gridlock at Apapa, Lagos State, improving the flow of traffic.
News Agency of Niegria (NAN) reported on Tuesday that the trucks call-up system by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) had also improved the traffic situation.
Sam Adeyemo, a leader of the National Association of Road Transport Owners, Dry Cargo Sector, had explained that traffic improvement would be temporary because without the provision of truck bays, the traffic crisis might not end.
Adeyemo, who had been in the trucking business for two decades, said the problem was an artificial creation of the shipping companies.
“The shipping companies are the ones benefiting from the situation by ensuring that the appropriate money is deposited by importers with them through demurrage.
ALSO READ: Presidency gives 2 weeks ultimatum for Apapa gridlock clearance
“Every importer deposits huge sum of money as a surety for containers. Such money is to be paid back to the importer if he does not delay in returning the empty container to the shipping company.
“With this traffic situation, every importer forfeits that deposit to the shipping companies; hence the shipping companies do not want to comply with the provision of truck holding bays.
“It should not be a must for me to carry the container back to the port. What happens to the bonded terminals outside ports?
“Empty containers can be taken to such facilities (bonded terminals); for the shipping companies to go there and pick the containers when they wish,” he said.
The transporter, appealed to the Federal Government to compel the shipping companies to make use of the bonded terminals that had been lying fallow for long across Lagos State.
According to him, if the private bonded terminals are put to use, so many people will not have anything to do at port.
He noted that if cargoes (ships) were stemmed (taken) to the bonded terminals, the cargo owners could go there, pick their goods and also return empty containers there without problem.
He commended the Federal Government for removing military operatives from the management of Apapa traffic.

















			
			Post Views: 
			77