Army move in, as IPOB orders Sit-At-Home on May 30





Fresh crisis appears to be looming in the south east Nigeria to which the military have been on ground to contain any act of disorder and lawlessness. This is coming as the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ordered citizens resident in the south east to sit-at-home on May 30 in commemoration of the struggle for the Sovereign State Biafra.
IPOB Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, in a statement, explained that said the day would be a time to remember victims of Boko Haram and herdsmen attacks.
The group requested religious institutions to offer special prayers on May 29 for Biafran heroes murdered in cold blood incommemoration of the declaration of Biafra by late Colonel Odimegwu Ojukwu which led to 30 month civil war in Nigeria.
The statement indicated that Biafraland would be in total lock down as there would be no human, vehicular or animal movements.
ALSO READ: Too early to renege on your promises, APC taunts Seyi Makinde
The statement reads: “Churches, Mosques, Synagogues and Temples are encouraged to open their places of worship on the midnight of the May 29 for special prayers in remembrance of all who died because of violence and sponsored killings.
“Special vigils will be held at the homes of select Biafran heroes and heroines who were murdered in cold blood in Biafraland.
“This year’s remembrance and sit-at-home will be special because it will present a unique moment of shared pains and misery for families that lost loved ones to war, hunger, starvation, disease, terrorism and state-sponsored killings.
“We remember the heroic few who stood up against tyranny, especially those who sacrificed their lives to defend the defenseless and those who died because there was no one to defend them.
“Middle Belt and Yorubaland brethren are advised to join this historic sit-at-home to honour the memory of all who died unjustly in Nigeria.
“We call on the people of Southern Kaduna, Middle Belt, especially Benue, Adamawa, Nasarawa, Kogi, those affected by herdsmen terrorism in Ondo, Osun and other states in Yorubaland to join the great family of IPOB in observing a day of solemn prayer and sit-at-home to remember those who died unlawfully, even during the general elections.
“May 30 is now an annual remembrance initiated by IPOB worldwide to honour our fallen Biafran soldiers without whom this generation of Biafrans would not have existed. We owe our heroes and heroines of the 67-70 class a debt of gratitude and shall honour them annually until the end of time. We shall never forget them as long as this world exists.
“All IPOB families in the Diaspora must rally on the streets of their respective countries with written petitions ready to be submitted to the nearest United Nations offices and embassies of foreign missions in that country.”
Meanwhile, the Nigeria Army have been mobilized to the south east already. The Army have told residents of the zone not panic when they witness the movement of troops on military exercise in their vicinity.









			
			Post Views: 
			95