Police in Anambra says it has arrested a 28-year-old man who allegedly lured his Facebook friend, Chimieze Abordike, also 28 years, to Ogidi in Anambra State, where he and his gang robbed him of cash and subsequently kidnapped him.

The victim was said to have been lured from his community, Ogbunike in Oyi local government area, of Anambra State.

The state command’s Public Relations Officer, SP Haruna Mohammed, who confirmed, said the Ogidi Police Station received a distress call about a man who was abducted and taken into the bush by some hoodlums, and immediately went after them.

“The man was abducted and taken to the bush at Ilongwodo Ogidi in Idemili North LGA of Anambra State. Following the report, Police operatives attached to Ogidi Division and “operation Puff Adder” responded swiftly and rushed to the bush.

“On sighting the police the hoodlums opened fire and the Teams responded thereby forcing the miscreants to jettison their mission and scampered for safety leaving behind the victim.”

Haruna confirmed that Arinze Okorie of Inyienu Ogidi was arrested with two machetes recovered from him, while his accomplices escaped.

He stated further that preliminary investigation revealed that the suspect lured the victim from Ogbuinike in Oyi LGA to Ogidi through Facebook while he and his gang robbed him at gun point of his money to the tune of N5000, phone and ATM card.

He added that, “The hoodlums withdrew another sum of N51, 000 from his bank account while in captivity. The case is under investigation and effort is ongoing to apprehend other fleeing accomplices in order to bring them to Justice.
ALSO READ: Court clears Akpabio on defection
“It would be recalled that similar incident took place on the 3/5/2019 where one Emerole Ikechukwu ‘m’ of irete village, Owerri was equally lured by a female facebook friend at the same town and was robbed of his money and other valuables at gunpoint using similar modus.”

aHe warned people to beware of those they interact with on social media, and also be careful when visiting them.












			
			Post Views: 
			83