Over 150 youths and professionals came together recently to discover how a specialist business degree could help them succeed in the global workforce. The crowd was filled with educational influencers, local businesses, current Nexford Learners; education enthusiasts slash fanatics and career experts.

The event featured 6 panelists, 2 moderators and 2 speakers that ranged from renowned education specialists, and entrepreneurs who brought talks that ranged from the future of higher education in Africa, the value of education, benefits of acquiring a business degree, skills gap and graduate employability. Speakers and Power Players included – Teju Abisoye, Modupe Adefeso-Olateju, Ife Durosinmi-Etti, Summy Smart, and Nadayar Enegesi.

It was a day filled with insights, emotion, inspiration, and passion. People got to listen firsthand to the CEO of Nexford enlighten them about the value of a business degree from Nexford, Applications were also ongoing and scholarships were given out. The hall was packed with attendees while the exterior was transformed into sections for event registration, degree applications, examinations and career advisory by Jobberman. Informative videos about Nexford were enjoyed by attendees during breaks.

Nexford CEO, Fadl Al Tarzi opened the program, and spoke about the work Nexford is doing with education technology. He also answered several questions that attendees had to ask.
There were 2 panel sessions at the beginning of the event. The first panel session had – Fadl Al Tarzi, Education Management Professional – Modupe Adefeso-Olateju and, World Economic Forum Global Shaper – Ife Durosinmi-Etti, discussing “the future of higher education in Africa”, with Nexford Country Manager – Olamidun Majekodunmi, moderating.

The second panel session had – Executive Director Lagos State Employment Trust Fund – Teju Abisoye, Olamidun Majekodunmi and Co-Founder Andela – Nadayar Enegesi discussing “graduate and employer skills gap” with Temi Igbene moderating.
President of Africa’s Young Entrepreneurs, Summy Smart also presented a speech on Education and Entrepreneurship inspiring attendees with his story and encouraging them to believe in the power of education and skills.
ALSO READ: 41 dead as Russian plane bursts into flames on landing
The highlight of the event was when winners of the BBA and MBA scholarships were announced after several pitches by interested attendees and a thorough selection process by judges. There was also a Q&A session with Nexford CEO, Fadl Al Tarzi and Country Manager Olamidun Majekodunmi with two Learners who are already pursuing a degree with Nexford. Attendees were able to listen to first-hand experience and testimonials from these two Nexford Learners.

Speaking to pressmen, Olamide Majekodunmi, Nexford Country Manager explains what the day was all about, “Young people, coming together for a common cause. To better ourselves- to advance beyond the realms of what society expects of the average youth. Beyond the constrains, the discouraging factors, lack of opportunities  the societies we live in offer us. We are all here because we want to make an impact in our lives and in the lives of those around us. The level of dedication I see in this room today is the most inspiring factor”.

Nexford CEO, Fadl Al Tarzi gave facts and stats to support why the institution feels Nigeria is ready for Nexford programs “Growing shortage of nearly a million university seats, the level of frustration with  quality higher education, the fact that only 11% of Nigerian employers feel graduates are prepared for the workplace. Data penetration rates are high. We feel that higher education should be affordable, accessible and high-quality, and help graduates add immediate value to society with a proven path to employment. By 2040, the world’s largest labor force will be in Africa with an estimated working age population of 1 billion (World Bank). Technologically advanced online programs remove the barriers, and is the only way we can provide high-quality, accessible and affordable education in the scale required. Affordability is also very important to us, Nexford degrees start at $80/month”.
 
The event was supported by Talent Management organization – Jobberman,, Telecommunication Gurus, MTN and a team of Nexford Learners.

			
			Post Views: 
			65