A group of Niger Delta militants under the aegis of Network of Niger Delta Republic Fighters, has threatened to declare a Niger Delta Republic on June 1 if the federal government fail to address the maltreatment of its leaders.

The group made the threat in a statement by its Director of Information, Maxwell Dan, using last year’s police invasion of the residence of Chief Edwin Clark and the suspension, trial and conviction of former Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN, Justice Walter Onnoghen as examples.

“It is quite unfortunate that the story has not changed till today, and we are standing on that declaration; we are standing on the declaration of the sovereign state of Niger Delta and we will declare Niger Delta Republic on June 1, 2019.

“It is a common fact that Nigeria has completely derailed from the path of peace, justice and progress as proclaimed by its founding fathers.
ALSO READ: EndSARS convener calls Nigeria Police a terrorist organisation
“As that could not pay off, they remove a Niger Delta son, Mr Mathew Seiyeifa, the most qualified Director of DSS without any due process. Not satisfied with his cruel and selective onslaught against the Niger Delta people, they plotted again and remove our son Justice Walter Onnoghen from office on frivolous allegations without following due process, neither was he given an opportunity of fair hearing.

“It is also unfortunate that after four years of this administration, there is no single viable project executed by the Federal Government in Niger Delta despite the billions of naira accrued to the government from the resources of the Niger Delta as a result of the ceasefire in the region”, the group said.

The group further lamented the spate of killings going on in the country, concluding that government has not been able to protect its citizens.

“The blood of innocent citizens is becoming alarming and it is clear that the government cannot protect the citizens, instead they continue to make unguarded statements without recourse to the safety of the people. It is a common fact the country is under siege and we cannot allow it to consume us”, it added.







			
			Post Views: 
			56