Nigerian playwright, Professor Wole Soyinka, has expressed the fears that Nigeria may be going through “horrendous descent into the abyss” and that the people on the street are interested in having their problems solved.

Soyinka disclosed this at the Africa Day 2019 organized by United Bank for Africa (UBA) while reacting Nigeria’s insecurity issues as raised by former President Olusegun Obasanjo last weekend.

Speaking on the theme: Africa’s history redefined: Our past, a path to the future,” Soyinka cautioned the Buhari administration not to ignore the issues raised by Obasanjo, but should be taken seriously

Obasanjo had at a recent event in Delta State alleged that the rising insecurity in the country, championed by Boko Haram and killer herdsmen, are moves to Fulanize and Islamise Nigeria and Africa as a whole.

He further accused the government of abandoning the substance as high level of kidnapping, youth suicide and terrorism in the land.
ALSO READ: Buhari’s men worried about Tinubu ambition
While he insisted that issues raised by Obasanjo must not be dismissed, Soyinka called on the people to unite and ensure that their demands for good and equitable leadership are achieved.

“We should be careful not to be too dismissive over the matter. The Federal Government is leaving aside the substance, which is the high level of kidnapping, youth suicide and terrorism in the country. I support unity in Africa but we need to particularize the area of unity we seek. Even Boko Haram also tries to unify everybody.

“When you talk about Uthman Dan Fodio, what comes to people’s mind is threat to dip the Koran into the Atlantic Ocean. There are many people in this controversy. My feeling is that the response of Minister of Information shows that they are leaving behind the substance, and worried about the language.

“Obasanjo was calling for a meeting to tackle some the serious issues in the country, including youth suicide. He said there are immediate needs to sit down and discuss these issues. And I am saying there are more immediate needs to do that,” he said.












			
			Post Views: 
			59