By Odimmegwa Johnpeter / Abuja


The dire Security and political situation in most West African countries have triggered the proposal for a regional defence force that would assist in the enforcement of security in member states. The Parliamentarians at the ongoing 2019 first Ordinary Session of the Parliament in Abuja, Nigeria also proposed that a common Ecowas electoral commission to govern elections in members states be established. During the presentations of country reports from Guinea, Mali and Niger, the Parliamentarian frowned at the level of insecurity in member states especially Mali. The country reports as presented by the Malian delegates detailed the attempt by Mali to restore stability and rebuild after series of setbacks since early 2012. The dire political situation in Mali includes Military coup d’ etat, renewed fighting between government forces and Tuareg rebels which culminates with the seizure of its northern territory by radical extremists. The suggestion that Parliament moves a motion to the authority of heads of states to consider the establishment of an Ecowas Defence Force was made by Mr. Mahama Ayariga, representing Ghana in the Ecowas Parliament.

According to Mr. Ayariga, the establishment of a Defence Force would promote Security and promote the region’s common market. His words, “If we have a common market where security makes it difficult for our citizens to access our various markets, then the very big objective of Ecowas will be defeated. In this regard, I suggest that this Parliament considers a motion to propose to Heads of State to consider the establishment of an Ecowas common Defence Force”. Mr. Ayariga further stated, “The force that can go beyond National sovereign boundaries and assist to enforce basic security in our various countries”.

On a proposal to establish a common Ecowas Electoral Commission, members of parliament agreed that its establishment would minimize costs of elections in member states. They also explained that the Commission would ensure common election standards in member states. The Parliament also proposed that the Ecowas Electoral Commission should have a uniform code that governs every election where the standards are the same.


			
			Post Views: 
			77