The Handball Federation of Nigeria (HFN) have concluded plans to commence the first phase of the Prudent Energy Handball Premier League.
The Handball Premier league, proudly sponsored by oil and gas energy company, Prudent Energy, has grown in leaps and bounds surpassing the expectations of many.
Like how it was last year in the 2018 season wherein there were two phases of the league, the first phase of the 2019 Prudent Energy Handball League will hold from the 13th to 25th of May at the indoor sports hall of the National Stadium, Abuja while the second phase will hold later in the year in Lagos.
In preparation for the commencement of the first phase of the league, HFN President Mr. Samuel Ocheho has declared that every logistics is in place to make it a memorable event.
“We have got everything in place for the commencement of the league as we have the massive support of the sponsor,  Prudent Energy.
The stage is set and the local organising committee are ready for the arrival of the teams. I believe strongly that the league this season will be better and even more prestigious than previous years” Ocheho concluded.
The HFN President also praised Prudent Energy for identifying with the handball family in reviving the league and also revealed some new innovation from the sponsors which includes but not limited to insurance cover for all of participating teams and price monies.
“This year’s league would also retain the same features of last year. The price money is still N1 million Naira for first place, 750,000 for second place and N500,000 for third place. This applies to both Male and Female.
Also every team is entitled to a subsidy of N250,000 in each of the phases.
Prudent Energy will introduce insurance cover for the league this year which is also novel for our league.
Players, coaches and referees would be kitted by Prudent energy too”. Sam Ocheho said.
According to Ocheho, the league continues to break new ground as HFN in partnership with Prudent Energy held a workshop earlier in the year wherein a facilitator from the International Handball Federation (IHF) was brought in to educate the Coaches and Referees in the latest handball rules for the benefit of the league.
He also called on other corporate organizations to partner with HFN in other programmes of the federation.
The Prudent Energy Handball Premier League will see 12 male teams and 10 female teams, amongst them defending championship, Niger United and Plateau Peacocks vying for honour in the first phase of the league starting from Monday 13th May 2019 in Abuja.
Participating Teams
Male
1. Bornu Spider of Maiduguri
2. COAS Shooters (Nigeria Army)
3. D. Defenders    (Civil Defence)
4. Kada Stars of Kaduna
5. Kano Pillars of Kano
6. Niger United of Minna
7. Owena Kings of Akure
8. Plateau Vipers of Jos
9. Prison Key Boys (Nigeria Prisons)
10. Rima Strikers of Sokoto
11. Safety Shooters (F. R. S. C)
12. Seasiders of Lagos
Female
1. Abia Valliants of Umuahia
2. Defender Babes (Civil Defence)
3. Desert Queens of Kaduna
4. Edo Dynamos of Benin
5. IMO Grasshoppers of Owerri
6. Kada Queens of Kaduna
7. Owena Queens of Akure
8. Plateau Peacocks of Jos
9. Safety Babes (F. R. S. C)
10. Seasiders Babes of Lagos

			
			Post Views: 
			72