Students of the Benin Technical College (BTC), Benin, Edo State, and members of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), on Sunday rescued a pastor of the church who was abducted by a three-man kidnap gang.

It was gathered that the suspects who specialised in robbing residents and unsuspecting worshipers on a daily basis, swooped on the community as early as 7.30 am and kidnapped the pastor, simply identified as Pastor Ayo in charge of Ologbosere Parish, in Egor Local Government Area of the State

A resident of the area who craved anonymity, said the BTC community has been under siege of hoodlums who terrorised members of the several churches in the area.

He said that the suspects had earlier snatched a Toyota Camry car from its owner, but later abandoned it behind Church of God Mission International (CGMi), in the area.
According to eyewitnesses, the hoodlums later proceeded to the Redeemed Christian Church God (RCCG), where they dispossessed worshippers of their money, phones, and other valuables and abducted the pastor, and whisked him away in his Nissan Xtera SUV with registration Number, LAGOS: EKY 353 CA.
ALSO READ: N2bn alleged money laundry: Court orders arrest of ex-Gov Babangida Aliyu, Nasir Nasko
Luck, however, ran out of the three-man gang when the youths, the vigilante men and some of the worshippers gave them a hot chase, resulting in the rescue of the RCCG pastor and the arrest of his abductors.

Leader of the vigilante group who asked not to be named, said it “took the timely intervention of the community youths, worshippers who chased the hoodlums until they abandon the pastor’s vehicle and the pastor.”

He added that the hoodlums terrorizing the community “are notorious for snatching cars at various churches during church service.”

Items allegedly recovered from the suspects include two double barrel-cut-to size guns, a Camry car and the Nissan SUV belonging to the RCCG Pastor.

Effort to reach the RCCG pastor was unsuccessful as he was said to be receiving medical attention in an undisclosed hospital following injuries sustained during the kidnap attempt.

It was gathered that the timely intervention of the Edo State Police Commissioner, Mr. Mohammed DanMallam, saved the suspects from being lynched by angry youths in the community.








			
			Post Views: 
			85