As MASSOB, Yoruba youths back Obasanjo





President Muhammadu Buhari has come under serious fire in recent times over his government response to some allegations brought upon his administration over the inability to curb the rising insecurity in the country by former President Olusegun Obasanjo.

Recall that National Daily had reported that Obasanjo decried the high level of insecurity in Nigeria, expressing regrets that both Boko Haram and herdsmen acts of violence were not treated as they should at the beginning.

“It is no longer an issue of lack of education and lack of employment for our youths in Nigeria which it began as, it is now West African fulanization, African Islamization and global organized crimes of human trafficking, money laundering, drug trafficking, gun trafficking, illegal mining and regime change,” Obasanjo had said.

And in response, theMinister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed had accused Obasanjo of fueling a divisive sentiments in a multi-ethnic and multi-religious country like Nigeria.

He added that, “It is particularly tragic that a man who fought to keep Nigeria one is the same one seeking to exploit the country’s fault lines to divide it in the twilight of his life”.

In a statement signed by MASSOB Director of Information, Edeson Samuel, on Tuesday, the group commended Obasanjo for being courageous and eloquence in revealing this unwanted truth, which the present government doesn’t want to hear.
ALSO READ: Islamisation agenda: Obasanjo is being mischievous – Lai Mohammed
According to MASSOB, the President has consistently overtly revealed his grand plans to project the actualization of the grand command of Othman Dan Fodio which is to islamize/fulanize this geographical entity called Nigeria and destroy the entire southern Nigeria.

The group alleged that in the early 60s, the north oligarchy through Tafawa Balewa and Ahmadu Bello used Chief Akintola to destabilize the Western region, and, now they are using Bola Tinubu to destabilize the political structure of the Southern region.

Adding its voice on the controversy, YYF in a statement signed by its president, Abiodun Bolarinwa, frowned at those attacking Obasanjo, noting that the former president’s claim was a wake-up call to Nigerians.

The group argued that instead of vilifying Obasanjo and accusing him of ethnic bigotry, that Nigerians should ask the current government about its agenda for security.

“Maybe we need to ask the government about its agenda for security because the silence on its part to the clarion call by the former President shows that the government is handling the issues of insecurity with levity.

“The insecurity in Nigeria has been on for so long but it is now getting worse on a daily basis. The killings and kidnappings that are ravaging the nation are sending a wrong signal to innocent Nigerians and the outside world.

“It is just unfortunate that the President is partisan in fighting the perpetrators of the crime because as the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, his duty is to ensure the safety of lives and property of his citizenry.”

Meanwhile, the controversies is still ongoing with different groups either supporting the former president or President Buhari, but the insecurity still persists with many Nigerians lamenting the spate of killings.







			
			Post Views: 
			73