The Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has reacted to a court ruling that outgoing Senator Godswill Akpabio did nothing wrong defecting to the All Progressives Congress (APC) since he was expelled by the PDP.

A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja on Friday while ruling on a suit filed by LEDAP seeking an order declaring the seats of 54 members of the National Assembly, including Akpabio, accused of unlawful defection from the parties which sponsored their elections to other ones, held that the former Senate Minority Leader never defected when he moved from the PDP to APC last year.

Justice Okon Abang in his ruling said the senator only “moved to join APC out of frustration of being expelled by the PDP through a letter dated August 2, 2018”.

Reacting to the judgement, Akwa Ibom state chapter of the PDP in a statement signed by its publicity secretary, Ini Ememobong, described the claim by Akpabio as shameful and said the party did not at any time neither suspended, nor expelled the senator.

“Chief Akpabio had announced to the world on August 8,2018 that he was defecting from the PDP to the APC in pursuit of National interest and to stem the tide of defections at the National Assembly.

“He conspired with Ntiedo Usoro, the then Chapter Chairman of Essien Udim to illegally write a letter of expulsion to him and back date same. The said Ntiedo having completed his assignment, later defected and joined Chief Akpabio in the APC.

“This ignoble comedy which has been taken beyond sane limits is most condemnable and dishonorable. It is indicative of the total exit of honour from a man whom many erroneously held in high esteem. There is no way that Senator Akpabio could have been expelled by the party without the concurrence of the State Executive Committee of the party.

“We know that the disgraced senator is running from his shadows and questioning karma, as his conscience is putting him to remembrance of how he masterminded the suspension and eventual expulsion of his predecessor, Obong Victor Attah from the Party(though the act was reversed).

“Nigerians are not fools and cannot be deceived by double speak and greed propelled dishonesty, but they may be amused by face saving but disdainful comedy, scripted and acted by an uncommon National Comedian.









			
			Post Views: 
			1,915