In the current society, many  people still contact toilet infections even with modern facilities. National Daily investigations revealed that millions of people are still  victims of toilets infections.

However, National Daily investigations found that such infections are not contacted through the use of just any toilet but from filthy or public  toilets which host  billions of bacteria and viruses.

National Daily learned from its investigations that bacteria and viruses that cause toilet diseases cannot survive outside the human body.
The seven avoidable toilet infections are the following:

1. ESCHERICHIA COLI (ECOLI)

Ecoli is about the most common toilet disease around today; hence, it’s coming ahead of the others. It is an intestinal infection (found in the intestine), and it is mostly contracted through the toilet sits. An infected person is likely to experience nausea, diarrhoea, and abdominal pain.

2. STAPHYLOCOCCUS

Like the Ecoli, staph is also contracted through contaminated surfaces like the toilet seat. It can stay alive for as much as two months. Infected persons are likely to experience boils and cellulitis (infected sores). Although, staph isn’t life threatening initially, it can lead to a more serious illness like pneumonia if left untreated for long.

3. NOROVIRUS

The norovirus is almost like the Ecoli, except, it takes more than a wash to get rid of it. So don’t even give it an opportunity to build in your toilet. It is also found mostly around the toilet seat. Symptoms are sudden nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea.

4. STREPTOCOCCUS

Once in a human, this bacterium is found in the throat, arranged in chains. It is also contracted mostly through the toilet seat and has the following symptoms; rashes on the skin, sore throat, swollen throat, fever, fatigue, stomach ache, etc.



ALSO READ: Nigeria needs additional 2m toilets annually over 7 years — UNICEF

5. GARDNERELLA

Also known as bacterial vaginasis, this infection is found in women. Its major symptoms include vaginal discharge (with less itching).

6. SHIGELLA BACTERIA

This kind of toilet disease is contracted when contact is made between an infected surface (door knobs, handles, toilet seats, etc) and a person. One can also be infected if they use contaminated water. Symptoms are diarrhoea, dysentery, abdominal pain, etc.

7. INFLUENZA (FLU)

This infection is caused by a virus, influenza. It is a disease that attacks the throat and lungs, mostly, and is contracted through contaminated toilet surfaces. Symptoms are cold, fever, sore throat, etc.

PREVENTION

1. Toilet diseases can be prevented by total cleanliness and carefulness.

2. Make sure you keep your toilet and everywhere around it clean always.

3. Wash your toilet thoroughly with a brush and detergent or other cleaning agents as regularly as possible (everyday).

4. Wash your hands with soap, thoroughly after you visit the toilet; as germs can be transferred from it to other areas of the house or your mouth even.

5. Always flush the toilet before sitting on it to avoid splashing contaminated liquid on yourself.

6. For women, make sure you change your underwear regularly.

7. Vaginal lotions also help protect women from harmful toilet infections.

8. Clean up your vagina with tissue paper after urinating.

9. If you cannot avoid public toilets, drop some tissue paper in the toilet to prevent water from splashing on you when you use them.

10. Avoid sharing underwear and towels.

 11. Maintain high toilet hygiene.

All these infections are curable, so do not hesitate to visit your doctor for proper check up and treatment if you have any of the above symptoms, but remember, prevention is always the better alternative.






			
			Post Views: 
			76