Serial digital entrepreneur and Chairman, Zinox Group Leo Stan Ekeh has declared that the only way the Nigerian economy can realize the desired impetus to survive is for the Federal and State Governments to support disruptive entrepreneurs who are now the corporate miracles of every progressive economy.
He cited America as an example which has produced the known whizkids of the century and raised global giants such as the Googles, Facebooks, Amazons and Microsofts, etc. of this world.
He said this while delivering an incisive talk at the Access Bank-sponsored 2019 African Fintech Disrupt Conference held at the Landmark Centre.
Ekeh also noted that Nigeria has a huge stock of smart kids who can change and sustain the developmental story of this country, adding that all they require is an enabling environment which is not too expensive for the government to provide.
While advising entrepreneurs not to see hope as a strategy in business, he reminded them of a critical configuration required for a self-audit before deciding if they really want to be entrepreneurs.
According to Ekeh, who also doubles as a global advisor to Microsoft, success as an entrepreneur in Africa requires 40% common sense, 20% spirituality and 40% knowledge of the business.
In his opinion, the 21st century has defined two types of entrepreneurs – disruptors and regular entrepreneurs.
ALSO READ: 9mobile introduces WhatsApp customer care
While advising startups and other budding business owners, he noted that their passion must pay their bills, else there is no justification for the business they are launching.
He reminded startups of the essential few ingredients of success, humility, ability to see the end from the start, an eye for the bigger picture, creative mindset, knowledge and energy to occupy the sector as well as the capacity to manage cash and excitement.
He, however, cautioned that they must be prepared to take reasonable pains before pleasure as they must postpone luxurious life until when they have built enough reserves to sustain such a lifestyle.
Counseling female entrepreneurs, the self-professed disruptive entrepreneur assured them that they will lead in the second quarter of this century as informed women are known to operate efficiently in structured environments with auditable systems.
He affirmed that no government has a choice to deny the youths of progressive infrastructure, except they want to face the wrath of this dominant segment of the populace.
With a round of applause punctuating his speech, Ekeh ended by advising those leaving the country for supposedly greener pastures not to waste their time as the population and lifestyle of Nigeria holds unquantifiable demand structure which is wealth on its own.









			
			Post Views: 
			80