Human bodies are usually designed to thrive on whole foods but unfortunately, we take in more processed meals than whole foods, which make us less healthy, and prone to cancer.
Medical experts have therefore warned against eating some foods or snacks that can cause cancer or increase the risk of getting it.
Below are list of some of the foods:

1. Grilled red meat

Doctors and other experts often advise that we limit the amount of red meat we take. Reducing our intake of fatty red meat to a few servings in a week will significantly reduce your risk of getting cancer.
According to them, foods that have been cooked at high temperatures produce acrylamide which is a known carcinogen. Meat that’s been prepared on the grill also takes unhealthy stuff from either the grill or the wood. It is therefore worth reducing your intake of meat and choosing organic foods instead. Just don’t overcook the organic foods.

2. Soft drinks

Soft drinks are high in sugar in fructose corn syrup form, which is the most challenging form for your body to handle. Just a single can has a full day’s worth of sugar. It makes your blood sugar rise significantly but doesn’t leave you feeling full.

If a good drink is what you want, choose sparkling water instead, with a splash of fruit juice.

3. Canned foods especially tomatoes

The thing with canned foods is that they contain a lot of added salt, while fruits are canned in sugar syrup. This in addition to the fact that the cans have a chemical lining makes things worse.

The chemical is called BPA which leaches into the food that comes into some kind of contact with it. BPA is a hormone disrupter which has also been linked to cancer.

Instead of going for canned foods, it’s better to eat fresh produce or look for cans that do not contain so much sodium or those labeled BPA free.

4. Microwave popcorn
Generally, popcorn is a healthy snack. The problem is when you eat microwave popcorn that’s been prepared in a microwave bag. It could cause cancer.

For this, the butter flavoring contains diacetyl which is toxic. The bags also have a chemical lining. The chemical is PFOA which is carcinogenic.

To be on the safer side, it’s better to buy kennels and then pop the popcorn either on your stove or in an air popper. Use olive oil as it would make for a great topping.


6. Processed meat

Processing meat either before or during the cooking process almost always makes it more dangerous. Products like sausages, deli meats, bacon and hot dogs contain plenty of salt and cancer-causing chemicals such as nitrate and nitrite.

Eating meat daily increases your chances of getting cancer by 22%. Instead, buy meat from your local butcher as they sell fresher meat.

7. Potato chips
Potatoes can be healthy when baked or when eaten in whole form as they are mostly carbohydrate. On the other hand, potato chips are the least healthy snacks for you.

This is because they are fried in trans fats and coated with salt. They also contain some artificial coloring and chemical preservatives.

These additives affect the heart and circulation. Potato chips also contain acrylamide which is a carcinogen. If you want to have a snack, choose dried apples, air-popped popcorn, pretzels, banana chips or baked whole grain pita chips.
8. Alcohol

According to studies, it is excessive alcohol intake that leads to cancer. You can take just one drink in a day for women and two for men to be on the safe side but honestly, it is advisable to just stay away from alcohol altogether.

According to studies, exceeding the safe zone increases the risk of getting colon, liver, mouth, esophagus and rectal cancers. If giving up alcohol is not something you’re willing to do, just avoid drinking when you are stressed or bored instead. The other better option is to take red wine. It has a compound called resveratrol that helps in fighting cancer.







			
			Post Views: 
			77