Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State on Thursday rolled out bulldozers to demolish the Akachi Tower built by his predecessor, Anayo Rochas Okorochas, with billions of naira. The governor gave the marching order as the beginning of the reconstruction of Imo State and reforming governance and development in Imo.
National Daily investigation revealed that the Akachi Tower is a gigantic monument built by former Governor Okorocha as a tourist site in the state. Bulldozers were sighted pulling down the edifice Thursday afternoon.
However, there were mixed reactions from Imo State indigenes over the action of Governor Ihedioha within 24 hours of his inauguration. Many took to their social media pages to express their opinions. While some stakeholders in the state expressed support for the governor, some others expressed skepticism over the governor’s action.
A stakeholder wrote: “This place is Rocha’s okoroch occult shrine; it must be destroyed for IMO to rise; thanks to our new governor for doing the work of God, thank you sir, Your Excellence.”
Another indigene wrote: “Egewusi Oyibo, we are happy oga. All must be destroyed. If it pains you, travel.”
This stakeholder wrote: “Egewusi Oyibo, my brother IMO must rise again; one love.”
Another wrote: “IHEDIOHA HAS STARTED RIGHT….The god of Rochas Okorocha is demolished!” 
This stakeholder wrote: “The hand of Rochas Okorocha’s god is being demolished by Governor Emeka Ihedioha. I was a stringent critic of the molding of a hand and terming it the hand of god.” 
another stakeholder wrote: “For a state like lmo where most people are Christians, the molded hand of god of Rochas Okorocha is abominable. Let this god come down! Imo must be liberated!”
But the skeptics wrote: “Is this how he wants to start, by demolishing projects of his predecessor? How is this statue related to any shrine or gods?”
“It’s too early for him, Emeka, to begin with demolition of some projects constructed by his predecessor. Mbaise man, take it easy, remember it’s just four years.”
“Is this what you came to do, to demolish buildings? Why not convert them for useful things; this structure was set up with our money and it’s being demolish with our money; what a waste nation.”








			
			Post Views: 
			175