Euracare Multi-Specialist Hospital, leading multi-specialist hospital in Lagos, has performed the first Transjugular Intrahepatic Portosystemic Shunt, TIPS procedure in Nigeria. The minimally invasive liver procedure was performed by a team of local medical specialists at Euracare Multi-Specialist Hospital, Lagos.






The TIPS is a procedure that uses imaging guidance to connect the portal vein to the hepatic vein in the liver. Using Euracare’s cutting edge medical equipment, the team of experts carried out the Vascular and Interventional Radiology procedure; the first of its kind in Nigeria. Interventional Radiology is an independent medical specialty that employs minimally invasive, image-guided procedures to diagnose and treat diseases in nearly every organ system.
The team of surgeons, led by Vascular and Interventional Radiologist, Dr Hammed Ninalowo, performed the surgery at Euracare Multi-Specialist Hospital in Victoria Island, Lagos, to correct liver cirrhosis. The highly qualified and motivated team followed stringent global protocols to ensure zero exposure to radiation.
Commenting on the milestone, Vascular and Interventional Radiologist, Dr Hammed Ninalowo, said, “It’s exciting to be able to perform the first TIPS procedure in Nigeria. With various techniques such as angiography, angioplasty, stenting, thrombolysis, embolization, ablation, we are happy to provide an alternative procedure for patients, one that is favourable for the patient.”
ALSO READ: If you don’t want cancer, avoid these foods
Also speaking on the breakthrough, Medical Director, Dr Tosin Majekodunmi, said that the success of the procedure is testament to Euracare’s innovation and professionalism; stressing the hospital’s commitment to reducing medical tourism by Nigerians. “As the leading multi-specialist hospital in Nigeria, we are committed to providing excellent care for our patients and procedures like TIPS, which requires complex interventional radiology, allow us to showcase our expertise especially to people who normally would prefer to travel abroad for procedures.”
Interventional radiology treatments can be the first-line care option for a wide variety of conditions like blocked fallopian tubes, malignant tumours in lung and liver cancer, fibroids and non-healing ulcers on diabetic patients. Interventional Radiology treatments do not involve open surgery allowing for small to no incisions, short hospital stay, quick recovery time, less scarring, reduced blood loss and reduced apprehension.
In accordance with international standards, Euracare has deployed frontline technology with its cutting-edge medical imaging radiology department, which is equipped with the following Siemens modalities: 1.5 Tesla MRI, 64-Slice CT, Digital X-ray, Digital Mammography and Ultrasound Systems. Since its opening in 2017, Euracare Multi-Specialist Hospital has serviced over 10,094 patients and completed 1,022 CT scans, 1,219 MRI scans, 108 cardiac procedures, 356 surgical procedures, 1,075 x-ray and 1,107 ultrasound. The introduction of this surgery amidst many other services buttresses Euracare Multi-Specialist Hospital’s commitment in broadening the medical landscape and redefining standards of healthcare practice in Nigeria.









			
			Post Views: 
			64