The escapade of Senator Dino Melaye with the Nigeria Police has continued to generate seeming nollywood scenarios in the polity. While the Senator shifts official etiquette expected of a lawmaker of the Nigerian National Assembly, the Nigeria Police seem to be shifting focus from the objective law enforcement to partisanship. The configurations have been degenerating funny stories in the Melaye and Police episodes; the Police have been prosecuting Senator Dino Melaye in court for attempted suicide.
A witness for the Nigeria Police, Abama Mallum, an Inspector of Police, told the court that Senator Dino Melaye plotted to kill himself in order to put the Police in trouble.
Abama Mallum, identified as a driver with the IGP Special Tactical Squad, had during hearing on the allegations of attempted suicide; attempt to escape from custody and damage to Police property against Melaye, had told the Judge that he overheard Melaye make the threat while attempting to escape from the clutches of the Police.
National Dailylearned that Inspector Abama Mallum narrated before the court that while on duty on April 24, 2018, Amos Boka, an Assistant Superintendent of Police, told him to convey Melaye and some police officers to Lokoja, Kogi State.
The Police Inspector was cited to have further narrated: “As we moved around 2.00p.m by Area I roundabout, a white Toyota Hilux blocked me, I applied the brakes. The vehicle knocked off my side-mirror.
“I heard the senator shouting at the officers. I then heard the sound of a glass breaking.
“All of a sudden, Sen. Melaye jumped out of the vehicle, shouting that he would not go to Lokoja.”
ALSO READ: Naira Marley: Foluke Daramola Condemns Nigerians Supporting Cybercrime
The Inspector had also said that Melaye had a sharp instrument in his hands and he was shouting:”I will kill myself and put the police in trouble’’.
Mallum maintained: “At this point, the police officers pleaded with the defendant to get back in the car but he refused.
“A crowd had also started gathering in Area I. I was ordered to put the car in reverse and go back to the office.”
The witness also said that a white van blocked the car he was driving.
Alex Izinyon SAN, counsel to Dine Melaye had demanded that the court should go to the car park where the vehicles tendered as exhibits were parked to make the witness identify the car.
The presiding Judge, Justice Silvanus Oriji, thereafter, adjourned the suit to May 27, 2019, for cross-examination.
 
 
 
 








			
			Post Views: 
			52