By Odimmegwa Johnpeter/Abuja
The Minister of Communications, Dr. Abdur-raheem Shittu has called for the bridging of the standardization gap. The Minister stated this during his
address at the World Telecommunication and Information Society Day 2019
in Abuja. According to the Minister, the overreaching goal of Bridging the
Standardization Gap (BSG) Programme is to facilitate increased participation
of developing countries in standardization to ensure that developing
countries experience the economic benefits of associated technological
development, and to better reflect the requirements and interests of
developing countries in the standards developing process. The Minister
further stated that the BSG is a fundamental part of ITU’s mission to connect
the world and also one of the strategic objectives of ITU’s standardization
Sector (ITU-T). This is also expected to address the disparities in the ability
of developing countries, relative to developed ones, to access, implement
and influence ITU’s International Standards. Shittu further noted that for
Nigeria to benefit from this, it shall learn about Bridging the Standardization
Gaps, develop the right skills for standards-making at ITU-T community, join
activities in the regions, participate in the standardization work of ITU-T, and
partner with recognized bodies to help Nigeria bridge the standardization
gap.
The Minister also called on ITU member states, industry members, small and
big companies and academia, together with UN Sister Agencies, partners and
all stakeholders to support ITU’s “Bridging the Standardization Gap (BSG)”
programme for the prosperity and wellbeing of all. He reiterated the
commitment of the Ministry of Communication of forward-looking policies to
enable citizens, businesses and societies to prosper while mitigating the possible adverse effects that can accompany economy change. This he stressed will encourage investment and promote development of digital
economies, while building an exclusive digital future for its citizens.

			
			Post Views: 
			133