Access to quality education has enabled me to reach far beyond the Bangladeshi village I grew up in. Muhammad Yunus

During my early morning workout, a colleague informed me that dozens of private universities applied for licenses to practice. They are taking advantage of the desperate demand for degrees by the general public. The thing is these institutions charge an arm and  a leg for admittance and could be  virtually out of reach of majority of the people who need their services. This high cost of education often serves as a deterrent to students being able to advance in school. A lot drop out to pursue money-generating activities.
This leads to focusing on the cost and quality of education proffered. Education for the most part is expensive in Nigeria and unfortunately this expense doesn’t necessarily correlate to quality.

From my experience, if you want quality, you will have to subsidize heavily besides what you pay already to your child’s school for private coaching and extracurricular activities. All of this just to ensure that your children are globally competitive. I am emphasizing this to depict the fact that though enrollment is high at private schools across Nigeria, learning outcomes are a momentous challenge across public and private schools. Previously there was a stigma against the low-cost, private schools in Nigeria, however with the number of out of school children accelerating, there is clear unmet demand (and inclination to pay.)


Low-cost, private schools should be able to provide quality education, or even decent quality education, at an affordable price to lower-income families.  There is no quick fix for this  innovative new approaches, tweaking the curriculum, boosting teaching methods, supporting teachers  and ensuring that parents are engaged are some ideas that have helped countries struggling with the same issue like Vietnam. What makes this situation dire is the fact that the population in Nigeria is exploding and the inequity in education is widening.
ALSO READ: Bridging the STEM Divide for African children
The average class sizes of schools in public schools is over 30 pupils per class, private  schools have the opportunity to remedy this. Also bothersome is the attitude about test scores by parents. Just this evening in a WhatsApp group I belong to, a school owner complained about a parent of a 6 year old who forced a teacher to retest her child twice because she felt the child didn’t score as high as she should have.  This emphasis on test scores as a method of gauging educational success shows that it will take a major shift in mindsets for  parents, students, and teachers to accept that true comprehension goes beyond test scores. A lot of these private schools are afraid of parents because they want to have high enrollment numbers and keep parents who consistently pay fees.
Supporting these schools to be accountable, ptovide quality education by supporting the teachers, integrating curricula that leverages on worldwide best teaching practices is a win win situation for society if we mean business about lowering the number of out of school children across Nigeria.

Earlier this year, a school was operating in a home and the structure was unsafe.  It eventually collapsed and it was a horrible situation. Immediately a lot of people were calling for the closure of these schools, the fact remains that, when emotions are set aside, low cost private schools are a necessity in our society due to the significant gap in providing quality education that exists.

There is also an urgent need to greatly enhance the supply of quality options for lower-income families as they are a huge segment of society.   Across the world, innovative schools in diverse nations such as Peru, India and  the United states show that it’s possible to find a balance between financial sustainability, quality education, and affordable pricing.

Adetola Salau; Global Educator / International Speaker / Author/ Social Entrepreneur/ Innovative Thinker/Future Readiness Advocate/ STEM Certified Trainer
She is an Advocate of STEM Education and is Passionate about Education reform. She is an innovative thinker and strives for our society & continent as a whole to reclaim it’s greatness.
E-mail-:Carismalife4U@gmail.com
facebook-: Carisma4u
twitter-: @Carisma4u
Website-: www.carisma4u.com

			
			Post Views: 
			44