Naira Marleys’s team is doing everything possible to get their star off the net of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. They have released a press statement that didn’t really go well with some online analysts. According to their press release, EFCC found something they can use as evidence to nail Marley in a lap top under his custody.

The press release writer insisted that the laptop was borrowed by Naira Marley. And many have laughed off such excuse.

Daddy Showkey has also been contacted to voice on the matter. He has obliged and did come out to speak on  the arrest, he appeals for his release even though he thinks he made a mistake by insulting his elders.

The veteran singer took to his Instagram page on Wednesday, May 15, 2019, where he posted a video:

“A lot of una dey call me because of Naira Marley, una dey say I nor wan put mouth for Naira Marley matter. Me, I nor go put my mouth for where small pikin dey insult em elders and some people dey try to make the elder look stupid when he dey talk the truth.

“But I go only talk say pikin no go bad, we go say make them kill am. We go find a way to save am…Me, I go beg the EFCC make them temper justice with mercy make them look around way to go about this investigation because this young man just dey grow. Make em take this one learn lesson, make em know as he go put em mouth for word,” he said.

Daddy Showkey scolded Naira Marley for insulting his elders on social media but appealed to the anti-graft agency to find away of freeing the young musician.

It would be recalled that a few weeks ago, Naira Marley and Ruggedman had an online fracas which went on back and forth.

Naira Marley was arrested by the men of the EFCC on allegation of his involvement in internet fraud on Friday, May 10, 2019 in company of Zlatan Ibile and three others.

On Tuesday, May 14, 2019, Zlatan Ibile and three others were released on administrative ground while Naira Marley was retained over alleged overwhelming evidence against him.

			
			Post Views: 
			932