President of Nigerian Shooting Sport Federation(NSSF), Brigadier General Lonsdale Adeoye(Ret.) is full of joy over the inclusion of shooting sport among the sports to feature at the 5th National Youth Games in Ilorin, Kwara State, from 7th to 17th September, 2019, by the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development.
An ecstatic General Adeoye said he and members of the NSSF board couldn’t hide their joy when it was officially revealed to the Federation through the office of the Director of Grassroots Sports Development, Dr. Ademola Are.
According to the NSSF President, “This is one of the most beautiful news ever received by the Federation since its over 40 years of existence in Nigeria.”
Brigadier General Adeoye who is also a member of Nigerian Olympic Committee Ethics and Good Goverance Commission as well as member, Integrity for Sports International, added that, “though we have organized and participated in several other competitions, both home and abroad, the inclusion of shooting sport in the Youth Games is a pecurliar feat and should be seen as a landmark achievement for the Federation and lovers of the sport as it would go a long way in having it rooted in all the States of the Federation and Abuja respectively since all States of the Federation participate in the Youth Games,” the elated NSSF President enthused.
Appreciating the leadership of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria, SWAN, headed by Comrade Honour Sirawoo, for their invaluable contributions, daily reportage and contninous engagements with critical stakeholders for the inclusion of shooting sport in all national and international sporting competitions, Brigadier Adeoye stated that SWAN has demonstrated that it is a reliable, result-oriented and barrier-breaking association that any responsible individual and organization should work with.
“I started having confidence in the SWAN leadership since the introduction of the National Media Shooting Championship. They have taken it upon themselves to ensure that sport grows and is recognized all over the world.
“The two shooting championships for sports journalists have yielded astronomical results for the Federation despite earlier ires from some sections of the society. Journalists are respected personalities in the society and are a driving force for change and transformation that any responsible person should seek their friendship.
“Honour Sirawoo and his board have demonstrated their high level of professionalism by reporting all the untold benefits of shooting sport and worked their talk during the last Media Shooting Championship. We hope to strengthen this relationship that has been built between the NSSF and SWAN,” he added.
The NSSF President further appreciated the Nigerian Olympic Committee’s President, Engr. Habu Gumel, the Nigerian Armed Forces, Military and Paramilitary alike, partners and sponsors of the NSSF activities, and States Directors of Sports.
ALSO READ: Coach Abubakar should return to Kwara United—Club Chairman
Reserving the best part of his appreciation, Brigadier General Lonsdale Adeoye specially thanked the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Barrister Solomon Dalung, for approving the inclusion of shooting sport in the National Youth Games, saying the Minister has demonstrated that he is not discriminatory of any sport or Federation under the Ministry and assured him and Nigerians at large of excellent displays at the games.
He also thanked the Director of Grassroots Sports Development, Dr. Ademola Are and the entire members of the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development for their roles in the inclusion of shooting sport in the 2019 National Youth Games.
The 2019 National Youth Games in Ilorin, Kwara State, will see states featuring shooting sport in both Air Rifle and Air Pistol, Boys and Girls’ categories and mixed doubles.

			
			Post Views: 
			74