Top Nigerian singer Tiwa Savage has finally gotten the delivery of her newly acquired luxury automobile.
A video of the state-of-the-art car which was customized in the singer’s name was posted on Instagram by media personality Azuka Ogujiuba and she revealed that the Mercedes Benz v250, 2019 model cost N60m to purchase while to clear it when it arrived Nigeria was about N15m.
The singer’s new baby which is referred to as ‘Savage Mobile’ is described to be like a private jet on the road.
The media personality went on to praise the hardworking singer, saying she deserves all the luxuries of life and more. She said:
‘After her magical performance, Africa’s leading female artist, no 1 African bad girl, my one and only iya Jam Jam @tiwasavage and her manager @mekkamillions chilled in her newest whip, a customised Mercedes Benz v250, 2019 model, which cost is 60 million naira and clearing was 15 million.
‘Even the area boys who are Tiwa’s fans surrounded the mobile machine gun, they also wanted a ride in it. At this point l was a bit tipsy, my eyes don dorti here after the surplus champagne we downed at the @ubagroup #UBACEOAWARDS2019 and #UBAAT70..The party was so lit, kudos to UBA
‘I don’t even care if anyone calls me an agbaya.l am just happy and excited for my girl Tiwa. It is a big blessing in disguise to be genuinely happy for someone, a lot of people dont realise that.
‘God almighty will continue to take you higher and higher in your career, may you excel beyond human expectations, may the grace and divine blessings of God never depart in your life, may favour of God almighty always locate you in Jesus name..
‘I personally know you work yourself out doing shows back to back none stop. There is no big party or corporate events that you don’t perform, you live your life practically on air. Even, sometimes when we talk on the phone your voice is tired, weak and sleepy just because you have not rested or slept.
‘A lot of people know you work hard even though they don’t want to accept the glaring and conspicuous truth. All l can say is that you will not shining when God has not said so’

			
			Post Views: 
			63