The long shiny fibers at the top of an ear of corn are called corn silk. Corn silk is used as a medicine.
Corn silk is used for bladder infections, inflammation of the urinary system, inflammation of the prostate, kidney stones, and bedwetting. It is also used to treat congestive heart failure, diabetes, high blood pressure, fatigue, and high cholesterol levels.
How does it work?
Corn silk contains proteins, carbohydrates, vitamins, minerals, and fiber. It also contains chemicals which might work like water pills (diuretics), and it might alter blood sugar levels, and help reduce inflammation.
Uses & Effectiveness?
Bedwetting.
Bladder infections.
Inflammation of the prostate.
Inflammation of the urinary system.
Kidney stones.
Congestive heart failure.
Diabetes.
Fatigue.
High blood pressure.
High cholesterol levels.
Other conditions.
More evidence is needed to rate the effectiveness of corn silk for these uses.
Side Effects & Safety
Corn silk seems to be safe for most people.
Corn silk can decrease potassium levels in the blood and can cause skin rashes, itching, and allergies.
Special Precautions & Warnings:
Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Corn silk is safe for pregnant women when used in the amounts normally found in food. But larger amounts are unsafe, because corn silk might stimulate the uterus and cause a miscarriage. Not enough is known about the safety of taking corn silk if you are breast-feeding. It’s best to stick to food amounts of corn silk if you are pregnant or breast-feeding.
Diabetes: There is some concern that large amount of corn silk might lower blood sugar. This could interfere with blood sugar control in people who have diabetes.
High blood pressure or low blood pressure: Large amounts of corn silk might interfere with control of these conditions.
Blood levels of potassium that are too low: Large amounts of corn silk might make these conditions worse.
Corn allergy: Applying lotions that contain corn silk might cause a rash, red skin, and itchiness if you are allergic to corn silk, corn pollen, or cornstarch.
 
 

			
			PV: 
			0