Former Big Brother Naija Housemate Symply Tacha has signed a managerial deal with ex-husband of Tiwa Savage, TeeBillz.

After Tacha was disqualified from BBNaija, TeeBillz had promised to make her a star if she comes under his management.

He said Tacha is “the most bankable brand out of all”.

He also promised to make her “the biggest brand out of Africa….. Bigger than Big brother itself.”
Tacha, however, revealed that she has come under his Billz Vision management company on Friday as she deleted all her contents from her Instagram page, leaving only the logo of the management, Billz Vision and wrote, “New Management @teebillz323″


Confirming the news, Teebillz also shared a picture on his Instagram page and wrote: “A Vision is not just a picture of what could be; It is an appeal to our better selves, a call to become something more!!! Welcome @symply_tacha #BillzVizion”


Ediale Kingsley, in his usual Open Letters, analyzed the situation. And in the process touched on some other serious issues. 

Dear Teebillz,

Life.

Yet, I guess Tacha made the right decision. You represent a bridge for her. She needs to crossover. And who else knows the territory better?

Who else is hungrier? Who has a point to prove to us all?

Tacha hands you a second chance. And it works for both of you.

Congratulations.

In letter to Tacha, I asked if she was changing her management.

Posted that letter on Instagram and tagged Tacha.

Bukky, my friend and colleague also drew her attention to the letter.

Days later, Tacha answers with your announcement.

You, TeeBillz, CEO Billz Vizion, has resumed work as Tacha’s manager.

Good work.

And you already started off on a good note. Which clearly shows you know what you are doing. You took off all the videos and photos of Tacha.

I mean, her old Instagram posts. Where she sold stretch marks and nudity (I am not against stretch marks and nudity, just stating the situation).

You took all the trashy and annoying Tacha off her Instagram Page. You wiped off all past posts. And she’s going to be reborn.

A new Tacha emerges. And it even interests me. One of my readers said it, weeks ago. That I will still appreciate the Tacha brand.

I didn’t listen. I didn’t want to hear her say anything good about Tacha. I really didn’t think anything good could come off Tacha.

Terrible me. Bad, bad me.

Well…

I am glad I am proved wrong.

I want to see the world turn good. I like good stories. That’s why I write. I write letters to people because I want them to be the better part of themselves. And not because I like to be ‘judgemental’ as many have termed me.

But I judge myself too. I write letters to myself. And for everyone that gets an InstaLetter, they get love. All the inks of judgment are all under the big heart of love.

That’s why on the lnstaletters logo on all the cover photo, a symbol of love is placed above.

It’s all about conveying your message via branding.

And Tacha is rebranded. They say she is ready to explode.

The only thing I don’t know yet is how she will ‘blow’.

As in, she was queen of trashy talks and trash showings. Now that you are taking that away from her. What will she sell?

What is her talent?

You managed Tiwa’s music career. We know Tiwa can sing.

Is Tacha singing? No. I don’t think so.

Acting? Well, she wasn’t too good in the acting gigs exhibited in the Big Brother’s house.

But she can develop that.

Anyways, I will leave you to figure that out.

I wish her well. I wish you well. And what’s up with the Tees?

TeeBillz.

Tiwa.

Now Tacha.

Perhaps, all coincident. Anyway, I am interested in what is to come. It’s like the Pepper Dem theme is not entirely over yet. It extended from the TV show.

Now that Tacha is first to make a big statement with her brand organization. I guess it will ‘pepper others’.

One other pepper situation is Tiwa. Hey, we all know what happens when women see another woman with their man.

Yeah, Tiwa probably may not have cared much about TeeBillz when he wasn’t with any ‘notable’ woman.

Now, Tiwa will have to adjust her visual set to a picture of Teebillz and Tacha.

Chai…

Pepper Dem o…

That Pepper Dem song is playing in my head even as I imagine these scenes.

Jealousy is demonic.

It creeps. It grows. It infects.

Hey, it starts gradually. And it is real.

You are never too big to be jealous. So I don’t want anyone to say Tiwa is bigger than that.

Even God, is a jealous God.

So jealous that He described Himself as such.

But…

…let me not start the drama before it starts. I’m here with my ink. Waiting to cum all over this instaletter screen when the story starts happening.

For now, one more time, congrats. Toast to your pepper dem season. It’s your time to shine. The last memory some of us have about you is that you couldn’t afford to buy pampers.

Wipe that memory. Soar high and redeem your image.

Your Vizion spotter,
Ediale
#ForTheCulture

PS: And yes who says you can’t marry Tacha too? Who doesn’t want the full series of Pepper Dem? But quit cocaine, as Tiwa accused. I don’t want to imagine Tacha on drugs. Cheers.















			
			PV: 
			0