The appeal of the PDP against the tribunal judgment upholding President Muhammadu Bhari’s victory in the Feb 23 election may end up as a battle between the PDP, its candidate Atiku Abubakar, and the Supreme Court
Atiku infantry men in the Coalition of United Political Parties drew the first blood weeks ago when it screamed at the effort the APC was allegedly making to handpick the judges that will sit on the matter.
Now a counter alarm has been raised: Atiku has shopped for columnists in the US media to dish dirt on Nigeria’s Supreme Court.
In the wake of the Feb 23 election, Atiku hired Fein & DelValle PLLC, a law firm in the US, for $30,000, to push the President Donald Trump administration to reject the legitimacy of Buhari’s victory.
The APC National Publicity Secretary Lanre Issa-Onilu raised the alarm of the former V.P’s fresh effort against Nigeria’s apex court  at a press conference in Abuja Monday.
He alerted Nigerians of an alleged plan by the opposition to continue the pursuit of agenda against the interests of the country for the next four years.
According to Issa-Onilu, the pen-pushers will be churning false articles, which would be published in reputable international media outlets, with the intent to blackmail justices of the Supreme Court over the PDP petition.
Issa-Onilu identified one of these spin doctors, an  American lawyer and former member of the President Ronald Reagan’s administration, as one of those that had been contracted by the PDP to execute the media attack on the justices of the Supreme Court.
“It is to be noted that PDP has made up its mind to pursue a destructive agenda against Nigeria for the next four years. This is no longer opposition politics. It is an unpatriotic agenda by people who do not mean well for their country. It is important we continue to alert Nigerian to the devious plan of the PDP,” he said.
“The judiciary is an important institution and its integrity cannot be subjected to political machinations. It is the responsibility of every truly patriotic Nigerian to rise against the PDP to ensure they do not succeed in undermining our corporate existence.”
The APC scribe  urge Nigerians to resist the unrelenting efforts being made by the PDP and their minions such as the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), few social media worms spreading and promoting false and destructive news.
“As part of the PDP and Atiku’s post-election delusions and scheming, the so called Coalition of United Political Parties has the devious mandate to intimidate and blackmail important state institutions such as INEC, the judiciary, and security agencies, on behalf of PDP,” he added.

			
			PV: 
			0