Manchester United have been a shadow of its old glory so far this season. The Old Trafford club despite their transfer dealings at the last summer window transfer has continued to lack their usual firepower upfront.
However, good times are potentially coming their way especially with the club’s determination to restore its lost glory with numbers of identified players to boost their firepower in the attack.
Recall that National Daily recently reported that Manchester United have identified Erling Braut Haaland as their next target to boost their target. The good news for every United fan across the globe is the talismanic display of Haaland on the European scene lately.
Haaland celebrates after becoming the first player to score 6 goals in his first 3 Champions League appearances
The Norwegian superstar fired another two goals despite his Red Bull Salzburg side 3–2 lost to Napoli in their UEFA Champions League Group E clash on Wednesday. The brace took his tally for the season so far to an astonishing 20 goals from 13 matches.
Haaland’s recent feat has seen the 19-year old broke Champions League record as the Norwegian wonder kid has now become the first player to score six goals in his first three Champions League appearance.
The Manchester United target also became the second teenager to score in each of his first three Champions League appearances, after Karim Benzema.
Haaland also became the first teenager to score six goals in a Champions League season, having scored a hat-trick in Salzburg’s 6-2 win over Genk, followed by one in their 4-3 defeat to Liverpool.
Haaland who has been touted as a target for United is also targeted by United rivals Manchester City, other European giants like Liverpool, Real Madrid and Barcelona are all believed to be watching him.
However, a big factor in the Red Devils’ favour is the fact that he has played under his compatriot Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, with the United manager having given Haaland his senior debut at Molde.
Solskjaer handed Haaland his first debut at Molde
Haaland has previously said of Solskjaer: “He has had a huge impact on my life, both as a person and as a trainer.
“He won the Champions League and was an incredibly good player. He has taught me a lot.”
Talking to TV2, Haaland added: “I have dreamed of playing for the best clubs in the world my whole life, and I especially like English

			
			PV: 
			0