The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has described a statement credited to former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode over the abduction of nine Muslim children in Kano as misleading, deceitful and unrealistic.
Recall that about nine children were recently kidnapped in Kano and were allegedly taken to Onitsha in Anambra state where they were sold, and eventually rescued by the Kano Police Command.
While MURIC had described the abduction as kidnapping for Christ, claiming that nine Muslim children were converted to Christianity and sold into slavery, Fani-Kayode had countered the claim, insisting that the abduction was an act of wickedness which has nothing to do with religion.
Not satisfied with FFK’s reaction, the Islamic human rights group through its Director, Professor Ishaq Akintola on Friday, 18th October, 2019 rejected FFK’s pontifications and described them as misleading, deceitful and unrealistic.
“FFK has committed a fundamental blunder. Was he not the one that came out with scud missiles shelling mercilessly from all artillery machines in March 2016 over the Ese Oruru imbroglio? There was nothing he did not say at that time. FFK should listen to himself sometimes.
“By the way, what has FFK got to say about another case of abduction of a 6-year-old Muslim boy, Ukashatu, who was kidnapped, baptised and sold to Madam Christiana. Perhaps FFK will tell us that Christiana is not a Christian name? Anyway, Madam Christiana gave Ukashatu a Christian name, Michael. Ukashatu was not found until a few days ago. He is now Michael, aged 14.
“Still, ‘nobody kidnaps for Christ’? But pray, what is the nexus between Ukashatu and Michael if it is true that nobody kidnaps for Christ? FFK speaks with his tongue in his cheek.
“FFK should realize that he is a leader and a leader should lead responsibly. He should stop manifesting double standards. Playing to the gallery, particularly using inflammatory statements and double-speaking are not characteristics of responsible leadership. Christians and Muslims in Nigeria share the same destiny and the leaders must not steer that destiny towards ruination.
“In conclusion, we appeal to Nigerians to always consider issues dispassionately. We should all reject and expose the criminals in our midst. There should be no attempt to extenuate the crimes of brothers-in-Christ or those of brothers-in-Islam. Crime is crime whether it is committed by a Christian or by a Muslim. It has no other name. We must also boldly and objectively reject attempts by fanatical Christians and Muslims in our midst to seek conversion using fair and foul methods.”











			
			PV: 
			0