Delta State Governor, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa (4th left); Deputy Governor of Delta State, Barr. Kingsley Otuaro (3rd left); Speaker, Delta State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori  (2nd left); Chief Judge of Delta State, Hon. Justice Marshal Umukoro (5th right); President, Customary Court of Appeal, Justice Stella Ogene (4th right); Bishop of Issele-Uku Diocese, Most Rev. Michael Elue (5th left); Bishop of Asaba Anglican Communion, Rt. Rev. Justus Mogekwu (3rd right) and Others, during the Special Thanksgiving Mass to Mark the Beginning of 2019/2020 Legal Year, at Emmanuel the Savior Catholic Church, High Court Road Asaba. PIX; JIBUNOR SAMUEL.
        
 



Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State at the   2019 legal year thanksgiving said that financial autonomy of the Judicial and Legislative arms of government are necessary as it would encourage speedy and effective service delivery to the people.
Okowa at the thanksgiving service at Emmanuel The Saviour Catholic Church, Asaba, to usher in the 2019/2020 Legal Year in Delta State, said that there was the need for greater partnership among the three arms of government to ensure good governance and provide the desired autonomy for all the arms.
Delta State Governor, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa (right) and the Chief Judge of Delta State, Hon. Justice Marshal Umukoro, during the Special Thanksgiving Mass to Mark the Beginning of 2019/2020 Legal Year, at Emmanuel the Savior Catholic Church, High Court Road Asaba. PIX; JIBUNOR SAMUEL.
Governor Okowa had declared; “I believe that when people work together they do not have any fear; we are able to discuss our problems together and to share common solutions, because either elected or appointed, our goal is to serve the people.
“Together in partnership, we will be able to offer the best to our people, because no matter what you do, if it is not right with the Judiciary, it cannot be right with the common man and we believe that it is very pressing for the Judiciary to have financial autonomy.
Delta State Governor, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa (right) and the Chief Judge of Delta State, Hon. Justice Marshal Umukoro, during the Special Thanksgiving Mass to Mark the Beginning of 2019/2020 Legal Year, at Emmanuel the Savior Catholic Church, High Court Road Asaba. PIX; JIBUNOR SAMUEL.
“We are very confident that with the way the House of Assembly is working, the financial autonomy will be granted the Judiciary before the end of the year.
“We have set the ball rolling. We are the first state to operate fully, the financial autonomy for the legislature, though, we are the second state to pass the Bill.
 “I believe that they (Assembly) will be fast in ensuring that they pass the Bill for financial autonomy for the Judiciary and ensure that it is operationalized because we are very desirous of the financial autonomy for the judiciary.”
The governor congratulated the judiciary for believing in God and seeking His wisdom. He acknowledged that the judiciary is very important in the country.
Delta State Governor, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa (middle); Deputy Governor of Delta State, Barr. Kingsley Otuaro (right) and Bishop of Issele-Uku Diocese, Most Rev. Michael Elue, during the Special Thanksgiving Mass to Mark the Beginning of 2019/2020 Legal Year, at Emmanuel the Savior Catholic Church, High Court Road Asaba. PIX; JIBUNOR SAMUEL.
Governor Okowa remarked: “in this kind of very challenging situation we find ourselves in the country, everybody looks up to the judiciary to continuously ensure that righteousness and wisdom continue to guide you to ensure that there is peace and justice.”
The Catholic Bishop of Issele-Uku Diocese, Most Reverend Michael Elue, in a sermon emphasized: “just, honest and accountable governance is the hallmark of democracy.
The Chief Judge of Delta State, Hon. Justice Marshal Umukoro (left) and former Deputy Governor of Delta State, Prof. Amos Utuama, during the Special Thanksgiving Mass to Mark the Beginning of 2019/2020 Legal Year, at Emmanuel the Savior Catholic Church, High Court Road Asaba. PIX; JIBUNOR SAMUEL.
“The actions of government must be scrutinized by the courts at the instance of the citizens; a Judge is like a surgeon in the theatre, a mistake can be fatal.”
Delta State Deputy Governor, Kingsley Otuaro, two former Deputy Governors, Chief Benjamin Elue and Prof. Amos Utuama, Speaker, House of Assembly, Right Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori; Chief Judge of the State, Justice Marshal Umukoro, traditional rulers and other dignitaries, were in attendance at the church service.

			
			PV: 
			0