This is a celebration time at Old Trafford as Aaron Wan-Bissaka has set the record for the number of successful tackles won in the Premier League this season.
Wan-Bissaka cleans out Onel Hernandez during the Carrow Road clash
The Man United defender was on his game during the Red Devils trip to Carrow Road to face Norwich on Sunday.
Wan-Bissaka produced another sturdy display at right-back, winning a mammoth 11 tackles during the contest.
The defender successfully won 11 tackles against Norwich
That accounts to a quarter of the 44 tackles he has made all season so far, as he ranks third in the list across the Premier League.
Only Leicester duo Ricardo Pereira (47) and Wilfred Ndidi (45) have made more, although both have made more appearances (10 and nine respectively, in comparison to Wan-Bissaka’s eight

The 21-year-old has impressed during his short time at Old Trafford, earning his first call-up to the England squad last month, but was forced to withdraw through injury.
Scott McTominay got the ball rolling for his side, before goals from strike pairing Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial followed.
Both forwards miss penalties in the clash however, meaning United have now failed to score from four of their six spot kicks this season.
“The first one I don’t think is a penalty, if it takes two minutes it’s not clear and obvious,” Solskjaer said. “But Marcus [Rashford] did the honourable thing and missed it.”
Rashford has now missed two of those, but boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer saw the funny side after VAR had given his side the opportunities.
But the Norwegian has been rocked by an injury to key midfielder Paul Pogba which is set to keep him on the sidelines for a lengthy period.
“I don’t think we’ll see Paul maybe before December.” Solskjaer added. “He’ll be out for a while. He needs time to fully, fully recover, so I don’t think he’ll be back.
“Maybe after the international break – but probably December before you see him.
“I’m not the doctor, but there is an injury there that needs healing. It is his ankle rather than his foot.”
 




			
			PV: 
			0