Man United fans in disbelief over club's current status
        
 




 


Manchester United have had a season to forget so far.
Man United have had a season to forget so far
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has overseen the club’s worst start for 30 years, which has left them 12th in the Premier League.
Publish Solskjaer has seen United suffered their worst start to a season for 30 years
It could get even worse as they face table toppers Liverpool – who have a 100 per cent record and appear on course for their first title since 1990 – on Sunday.
In fact, there is a possibility that they could drop into the relegation places for the first time in living memory.
Obviously from what National Daily gathered, nine games are not enough to see United heading towards the Championship, and their first relegation for 46 years, but it is still another landmark in a pitiful recent history for the club.
The Red Devils’ record in the 2019/20 campaign is: two wins, three defeats and two defeats from eight fixtures – resulting in nine points, just two points above the drop zone.
So, below are what Man United would wish against to avoid finding themselves in the bottom three:
Everton need to beat West Ham
Starting with Saturday’s lunch-time kick off, the Toffees would need to end a run of four defeats in the Premier League against West Ham and that would take them from 7 points to 10 points and above United.
an United horror could commence with a win for Everton
It isn’t beyond the realms of possibility with Everton only losing at home to the Hammers once since the start of 2006.
Also, Manuel Pellegrini’s men, who are currently 8th, have lost to Crystal Palace and League One Oxford in their last three matches, and drawn with Bournemouth in the other.
Aston Villa and Brighton draw
Moving into the Saturday 3pm kick offs now, and the only share of the points that need to happen.
If the Villans and Albion can draw at Villa Park, United will drop below both.
Brighton are currently level on points with Solskjaer’s side, so a point would naturally lift them above, while Villa only have eight points.
Therefore a point would stick Villa on nine alongside United, with the same plus one goal difference; but the Midlands club have already netted 13 goals to United’s nine which would mean overtaking them.
Newcastle beat Chelsea
Here’s the most unlikely result, but not a complete outside chance.
3 points for Newcastle against Chelsea could take them to 11th and above Man U
The Magpies stunned the Red Devils before the international break as debutant Sean Longstaff bagged the only goal in a 1-0 win.
Three points for Steve Bruce’s troops will rocket them to 11 for the season and above United, with the Blues already well above United.
The bad news: Newcastle have not won at Stamford Bridge since Papiss Cisse’s heroics in 2012.
Southampton beat Wolves
The good news for the ‘United into the relegation places’ plan: Southampton thrashed Wolves 6-0 at Molineux in 2007.
The bad news for the ‘United into the relegation places’ plan: that result was the last time Saints won in the land of gold.
The south coast side are 17th and only on seven points so they would need to win to overtake United, with Wolves currently a point and a place above the Red Devils.
Liverpool beat Man United by two goals or more
This mega-clash isn’t until Sunday but United can’t drop below Sheffield United until now – as they have
Liverpool could make things more miserable for Man United with a win
A 1-0 win for Liverpool would draw the Yorkshire side level with the Red Devils but goals scored would keep United ahead.
Any greater margin and United fall below and assuming all the other results before this happen then they are in the relegation zone.
Insignificant results
Norwich vs Bournemouth – Technically the Canaries can edge above United but they would need a win and a 12 goal swing. So unlikely it isn’t worth contemplating, and it can happen without this result.
Leicester vs Burnley – 14 points vs 12 points mean both are already ahead of United.
Tottenham vs Watford – Spurs are two points better off than the Red Devils, while the Hornets would need six points to even draw level with United.
Crystal Palace vs Manchester City – Both City and Palace are ahead of United.
Sheffield United vs Arsenal – United could already be in the relegation zone by Monday night’s game but to stay there, the Blades would have to at least a point or lose by one fewer goals than Solskjaer’s side.




			
			PV: 
			0