There are fresh plots cooking to distract and rattle Vice President Yemi Osinbajo this week, in continuation of the long-drawn-out war between the Aso Rock cabal supported by the leader of the APC who is also a former governor of Lagos.
According to the Initiative to Save Democracy, a political group, the fear of 2023 and the likelihood of Osinbajo contesting, following his rising profile as political protege of the former governor, is fuelling the crisis.
The only party leader reported in the media to be having cold war with the V.P. is the APC national leader Bola Tinubu.
He has however denied it, saying Osinbajo is free to nurse any any ambition.
Notwithstanding, the ISD, which is afraid to name the godfather, insisted in a press release Saturday Tinubu and the cabal are scheming against Osinbajo.
The group, one of the mushrooming solidarity groups in the country, said it has reliable information that the cabal will stop at nothing to distract the Vice President from doing his work.
“The first thing they attempted to do was to destroy the relationship between the President and Vice President but that has not worked despite deploying different strategies from inside and outside.
“Then they tried to malign the Vice President’s reputation by throwing up all sorts of trump charges against him but with no evidence of wrongdoing that soon crumbled.
“They even referred to the N5.8 billion NEMA Emergency Intervention, the N90 billion FIRS Campaign Fund and other fake news but all those failed too because they were fake news from the beginning. They even went after those who have backed the Vice President,” the statement said.
“Their plan is to oust him in time before 2023 elections which is still very far away.
“The plan of the cabal is to ensure that they distract the Vice President every week with some fake news. What this will ultimately mean is that instead of him to focus on the work he is doing for Nigeria, he will be concerned about the fake news and lies.”
According to the group, the hostilities are renewed following the showing the V.P. enjoyed with his boss during the Independence Day celebration.
“The cabal said the two of them appeared to still enjoy a very healthy relationship as they were seen talking and laughing at something the President had said at different times.
“They will stop at nothing to make Prof. Osinbajo look bad in the eyes of President Muhammadu Buhari, his boss. They also don’t like the fact that he has restated his loyalty to serve Nigeria and serve his boss, these are some of the things getting them angry.”
The group said it is too early for the cabal to be scheming about 2023 when we are in 2019 with a lot of work to be done by the present administration.
“I think they should leave politics for now and allow the President and Vice President concentrate on the work at hand.”
 

			
			PV: 
			0