Manchester United spent £150 million in the summer but are still short of quality.
They’re two points off the relegation zone after eight games played and look devoid of ideas when things aren’t going to plan – especially up front.
But Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is not in immediate danger of losing his job.

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer

However, National Daily learnt that the Manchester United board appreciate that the Norwegian has a difficult job on his hands, and Ed Woodward is willing to give him time to turn things around.
Ed Woodward
According to reports reaching National Daily, Woodward will authorise four news signings in the summer to help with the dramatic rebuild.
Ben Chilwell and James Maddison
It’s unlikely that everything will go to plan for Solskjaer and that he’ll land all of his intended targets – he will no doubt be priced out of at least one deal.
But should everything go to plan, here’s how Manchester United could look next season in a dream scenario.
Man United dream team
David de Gea – recently signed a new deal, here to say for the longhaul.
Aaron Wan-Bissaka – summer signing who has settled in well; will likely run the line for the next few years.
Harry Maguire – £80million summer signing who looks set to captain the club one day.
Kalidou Koulibaly – high on Man United’s wishlist but would cost big money to sign.
Ben Chilwell – linked with a move to United as injury-prone Luke Shaw falls down the pecking order at Old Trafford.
Scott McTominay – favoured by Solksjaer and will likely keep his place in the team.
Paul Pogba – could leave as soon as January but if he stays will remain in the first team. On his day he’s one of United’s best.
Anthony Martial – will likely rotate with Marcus Rashford but arguably a better player on the left.
Daniel James – Solskjaer’s best summer signing who appears to love playing for the club. Will only get better with age.
James Maddison – would likely cost a small fortune but could be the missing piece to the puzzle where creativity is concered.
Moussa Dembele – Mario Mandzukic will likely join in January, but as he’s 33 United will need a long-term solution. Dembele may be this man.

			
			PV: 
			0