The Chairperson of the Nigeria Women Football League, Aisha Falode, yesterday in Lagos disclosed that the eventual champion of the Nigeria Women Premier League Super 4 will go home with a cash prize of N3million and an official trip to Spain on invitation of the La Liga Women’s League,National Daily learnt.
She noted that the second place team will get N2 million, while the third place team gets N1 million cash prize.
Falode, said Wednesday at the well-attended press conference to herald the 2018/2019 Nigeria Women Premier League Super 4 at the Agege Stadium, Lagos, that, the one-week official trip for the eventual champion of the 2018/2019 Super 4 , is one of the technical activations of the La Liga Women’s League partnership with the NWFL, signed two years ago in Spain.
She stressed that, the second aspect of the La Liga partnership, would see the Spanish league management,  send technical officials to Nigeria before the commencement of the new season to train coaches in the Women’s League.
“This is the much we have done to further develop the Nigerian league, as we the board members of the NWFL know quite well that, there is no vibrant national team, without a standard and well developed league football in the country.”
The Chairperson of the NWFL urged women football stakeholders in Nigeria to be ready to invest in the country’s women’s football. “We have not done badly in  a little over 2 years since we took office. We have a league that plays the Super 4 and the Champion’s Shield. All we need now for our viable league is a worthy sponsorship. We appeal to the clubs to appreciate the good things done by the board and constructively criticise. We want the best for the league. The closing gap being experienced from other African countries at the national team level, means, we need to work hard to regain our pride of place at the top of African football.
Aisha Falode noted: “The Nigeria Women Football family is delighted to have two cabinet ministers and one Deputy Governor at the final of the 2018/2019 Super 4 on Sunday November 3. “We are honoured to have the Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare, the Minister for Women’s Affairs, Pauline Tallen and the Deputy Governor of Edo State, Honourable Philip Shauibu, at the grand finale.
“We are also grateful to the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo Olu, for partly supporting the Super 4 to hold in Lagos.”
In the Super 4 Match Day One, Adamawa Queens will confront Confluence Queens in the ‘Battle of the Savannah, while defending champions Bayelsa Queens will slug it out against Rivers Angels in the ‘Battle of the Niger-Delta’. The winners of the two games will play in the final, while the losers will play in the third place match all on Sunday, November 3, 2019.

			
			PV: 
			0