Fast becoming one of the most distinguished faith-based charitable organizations in Africa, the Chris Oyakhilome Foundation International (COFI) continues to expand its efforts has again donated a state-of-the-art tuition free school and a health centre in DEMSA community in Adamawa state, Northeastern part of Nigeria.
The Chris Oyakhilome Foundation International believes that nurturing and providing for the physical, emotional and spiritual needs of children enables them to grow into healthy, happy, well-rounded adults, hence the urgent need to provide many children living in impoverished areas lack basic nutritional provisions and quality educational opportunities.
According to a recent UNICEF report “of the 1.4 million children displaced by the fighting in the Northeast over 900 000 of them are of school age”. Sadly, there many millions of suffering communities elsewhere. Only 61% of 6-11 year-olds regularly attend primary school and only 35.6 percent of children aged 36-59 months receive early childhood education.
In Northern Nigeria, the picture is even bleaker, with a net attendance rate of 53 percent. Getting out-of-school children back into education poses a massive challenge. The education deprivation in northern Nigeria is driven by various factors, including insurgencies, communal conflicts, economic barriers, socio-cultural norms and practices that discourage attendance in formal education, especially for girls.
In response, the Chris Oyakhilome Foundation International donated the state-of-the-art school which is tuition free, and a health centre to the community with a view to reaching several out-of-school Boko Haram Insurgency Victims.
The Chris Oyakhilome Foundation International, more commonly referred to as COFI, is dedicated to providing the highest efforts towards stability and development through initiatives focusing on healthcare, early childhood education and development, youth leadership development and engagement and family strengthening and livelihood.
COFI through its partners (Volunteer Medical Corps, Trauma Care International, InnerCity Mission for Children, Future Africa Leaders Foundation, Bible for All Mission) and under the leadership and direction of legendary founder and minister of the Gospel of Jesus, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, has been able to touch the lives of many indigent families.
Recall that Pastor Chris Oyahkilome demonstrated his commitment to education and the empowerment of youth by financing a brand new engineering faculty at the Benson Idahosa University.
Also, one of COFI’s partners ‘The Inner-City Mission’ through the “Back-to-School”, an effort to get kids “back to school” by paying their school fees and providing them with back to school kits has seen many indigent children who couldn’t afford to go to school or forced to drop out due to lack of funds back at school.
The NGO organizers entered with truckloads of treats and school supplies bringing wide smiles to all the kids. They responded with overwhelming excitement and cheered at the gates as they witnessed the Inner-city mission team members arrive with school packs for each and every child.

			
			PV: 
			0