Former presidential candidate of Young Progressives Party (YPP), Kingsley Moghalu, has demanded for an apology from human rights lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN) over allegations that he resigned from his party because he was given appointment by the All Progressives Congress, APC.
Recall that Falana at the 2019 Felabration symposium held at the NECA House in Lagos, accused Moghalu of resigning because he was offered an appointment by the ruling party.
He was quoted as saying, “We should not celebrate opportunism. Here is a politician who contested on the platform of a party, who has moved conveniently to the APC. They’ve just given him an appointment and he has just discarded his own political party. I don’t think that is fair for all.”
But, reacting, Moghalu in a statement on his official Twitter page described the allegations as a ‘surprise and an embarrassment.’
He, therefore, demanded an apology and a public retraction from Falana.
“These statements are false. I am not a member of the APC. I have not been given any appointment by the APC government. This effort to malign my character and reputation, by an individual I have always respected, was a complete shock to me.
“It is surprising that a man of Mr. Falana’s standing, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria no less, could make such weighty statements without verification.
“The media that reported this attack on me by Mr. Falana without checking the veracity of his statements acted in dereliction of their professional ethics and have actively spread fake news.
“I demand and expect an apology and a public retraction of this falsehood from Mr. Falana.”
Moghalu explained that since the elections he has moved into advocacy for electoral/political reforms and voter education in Nigeria.
“I contested in the 2019 presidential election as the flag bearer of the the Young Progressives Party (YPP). Since the elections I have convened To Build a Nation (TBAN), a non-partisan citizens’ movement focused on advocacy for electoral/political reforms and voter education in Nigeria. In order to strengthen the integrity of the movement’s non-partisan stance, I recently announced my resignation from the YPP. I am NOT a member of any political party.”








			
			PV: 
			0