Two hundred and forty six students have received scholarships from the Arole Oodua’Olofin Adimula, Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwunsi, Ojaja II, Ooni of Ife through His advocacy platform, the Hopes Alive Initiative (HAI) in partnership with Airpeace Airlines.
The scholarship programme was held in commemoration of his 45th birthday which is set to hold on October 17, 2019.  It is an expression of His Imperial Majesty’s appreciation to the Almighty God for the grace to witness yet another year in good health and prosperity.
According Deputy Chief Convener of HAI, Princess Temitope Adesegun, the scholarship programme was created after discovering the high rate of drop outs among students from basic to tertiary levels due to their inability to pay tuition fees.  The programme was also designed to touch those who genuinely need it and the selection process conducted by the scholarship committee was free and fair.
His Imperial Majesty has always been known to be an advocate for education. He is so passionate about the youths because He sees so much potentials in them and wants them to succeed. This is why He continually thinks about how to make them better individuals for themselves , their families and the society at large.” She disclosed.
Speaking further, she said “Kabiyesi’s giving knows no bounds. My team and I are so honored and most importantly, happy to serve and learn the importance of giving from a wonderful King who has impacted lives of countless less privileged individuals in the society.
Our partner, the Chairman of Airpeace Airlines, Barrister Allen Onyema  has thrown his weight behind HAI’s numerous activities since it’s inception and we are immensely grateful to him for his relentless support.”
“On behalf of my team and I, we want to use this momentous day to thank HIM for inspiring us to greatness and supporting us every step of the way. I wish HIM a memorable and colorful birthday celebration and pray that His reign will be long in good health. May His life continually be filled with blessings, prosperity and happiness”.
The Hopes Alive Initiative(HAI), a social advocacy intervention program established by the Ooni concerned with alleviating the social, cultural and environmental issues related to poverty among the most vulnerable while creating equal opportunities for all.

			
			PV: 
			0