Nobel laureate, Prof Wole Soyinka has predicted a gloomy future for Nigeria and its youths over the falling standard of education system in the country.
The Nobel laureate who disclosed this on Sunday during the presentation of a play, ‘Folly of Men’ at the University of Lagos, said Nigeria’s educational system is nothing to write home about.
The event was part of activities commemorating the 90th anniversary of the Government College, Ibadan (GCI).
The play, which was a reworked copy of three plays: Wole Soyinka’s ‘Trial of Brother Jero;’ Femi Osofisan’s ‘No More the Wasted Breed;’ and Bode Sowande’s ‘Mamiwater’s Wedding,’ was staged as part of activities commemorating the 90th anniversary of the Government College, Ibadan (GCI).
At the event, Soyinka, Osofisan and Sowande, who were old students of the college, were given different awards, along with Dr Christopher Kolade, and the late T.M. Aluko.
According to the prolific playwright and activist, education in Nigeria is horrific, adding that the country is in trouble.
He said the country’s education was nothing to write home about.
“We are in serious trouble, education-wise in this country. Let me not kid you; it’s horrifying. That was why I was happy about the initiative of creating a model school and trying to resurrect this Government College and present it as the ideal. We are really very low, education-wise.
“I have learnt how much they (old students association) have done in the last few days and I am very proud of their work. I just hope the government leaves them alone; don’t interfere with them. Let them bring back to everybody’s mind the possibility of what education can be,” the renowned writer said.
The President of the GCI Old Boys Association, Dr. Wale Babalakin, said the college had fallen into disrepair.
He explained that in the last one year, the group had spent over N500m to renovate the school’s structures.
“There is nothing called general education. Education must be good. It is better not to provide education than to provide poor education because a half-educated person is a danger to himself and the society.
“We have to make conscious efforts to invest in education and create a proper school that will further the development of Nigeria,” he added.


			
			PV: 
			0