Manchester United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has voiced his belief that Sunday’s fixture against Liverpool is coming at the right time for the Red Devils, and he might be right.
Solskjaer giving thumbs-up in wait for Liverool’s clash
Solskjaer’s side may be in dreadful form at the moment, with the 1-0 loss against Newcastle before the international break leaving them down in 12th in the table, but the Norwegian will be able to rely on the home fans being up for the contest against the league leaders.
What’s more, it looks like he can rely on the return of some big names too.
National Daily gathered from the report by Mirror Sport on Monday that United could welcome back as many as four key players for this weekend clash against Liverpool, with at least three looking likely to start.
Pogba is fit again to face Liverpool
Paul Pogba, Aaron Wan-Bissaka and Luke Shaw all look like they’ll return to the side after missing that defeat at St James’s Park, where United started with Diogo Dalot and Ashley Young as their full-backs and Fred in midfield.
Wan-Bissaka is also good to go
Those three changes certainly look as though they will make Solskjaer’s side stronger, while the Norwegian could also welcome Anthony Martial and Victor Lindelof back to the fold.
Martial is back in training
The Frenchman scored in United’s first two matches of the season – the win over Chelsea and draw at Wolves – but, like Shaw, he hasn’t been since since the 2-1 defeat at home to Crystal Palace in very next game.
This clash might come too soon for the forward, but he could be on the bench to provide an extra and much-needed attacking option for Solskjaer.
Lindelof has missed the club’s last two games, but he is reportedly set to feature for Sweden against Spain on Tuesday as he steps up his fitness.
Liverpool will go into the match as huge favourites following their 100 per cent start to the Premier League season, but Solskjaer will hope that his returning stars can make a difference.
Man United possible line-up against Liverpool on Sunday
 

			
			PV: 
			0