The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday berated President Muhammadu Buhari and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) over plots to beguile Nigerians with clandestine ambition for third and scuttle the constitution.
The PDP in a statement by Kola Ologbondiyban, National Publicity Secretary, in Abuja, therefore, cautioned the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the cabal in the Buhari Presidency against plots to push a third term agenda for President Muhammadu Buhari.
The PDP described such as a dangerous underhand politics capable of derailing democracy and destabilizing the nation.
The party berated the statements by the Presidency and the APC as unhealthy ploy to introduce a repugnant issue into official discourse in a bid to give it a life and achieve its fruition in the political arena.
The PDP declared that “it is preposterous for the Presidency cabal and the APC to think that Nigerians cannot see through their shenanigan to import and elevate what they labeled as rumor and internet-based gossip, into official national discourse.”
The PDP noted that Nigerians will not be surprised when, after the statements by the Presidency and APC, new groups surfaced to orchestrate more forceful agitations in the public space for the alteration of the 1999 Constitution to achieve an ignoble aim.
The PDP, however, cautioned the Presidency and the APC to note that Nigerians are already aware of individuals and political interests in the Presidency cabal in addition to known APC agents who are behind the street demonstrations for a third term for President Buhari.
The party invited Nigerians to note how, having been busted, the presidency cabal and the APC are now groping for ways to cover their trails by making frivolous allegations which directly point back to them.
The party, therefore, challenged President Buhari to personally speak out and immediately call his supporters to order as Nigerians will never allow anybody, no matter how highly placed, to alter any part of the constitution to serve a selfish interest.
The PDP insisted that “this has become imperative in view of the series of constitutional violations and provocative undermining of our laws by the APC and power mongers in the Buhari Presidency.”














			
			PV: 
			0