The atmosphere at Old Trafford is nothing short of a nightmare presently with the once successful club experiencing its worst campaign in over 30 years.
The unpleasant situation has left Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s future in doubt especially after his reign as United boss hit a new low with Sunday’s 1-0 loss to fellow strugglers Newcastle.
The defeat left the Red Devils floundering in 12th place in the Premier League, just two points above the relegation zone after two wins from their opening eight games.

Strangely, it is sad to note that many world class managers may appear indifferent towards the opportunity to manage United due to the clubs rapid dwindlement.
Many like former Arsenal midfielder, Paul Merson are unsure who would want to take on the job, with United having fallen so far from their glory days under Sir Alex Ferguson.
Merson speaking on The Debateon Sky Sports said “Who takes this job?”
“This was a once in a lifetime job. You manage England, Man United and they are the two.
“Now, I wouldn’t see a queue round the block. They are a million miles off.

Paul Merson


The former Arsenal star further opined that whoever takes over will have a huge job on their hands to turn United back into genuine Premier League contenders if there must be a change.

Merson further reckons that any incoming manager would have to spend £700m to get the squad up to scratch.

“This is a £700m job. If someone like Allegri came in, he would want £700m to spend. They need seven players.”
 
National Daily gathered from circulating reports that Executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward is understood to be losing patience with the team’s poor form, while there have been claims that Solskjaer is losing the dressing room with players questioning his tactics.
Meanwhile, Leicester boss Brendan Rodgers, Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino and former Juventus chief Max Allegri all having been touted as potential successors to Solskjaer should Woodward decide to call time on the former Red Devils striker’s time in the hotseat.

Ed Woodward 

First priority would be a striker, with United’s failure to replace Romelu Lukaku and Alexis Sanchez having come back to haunt them in recent weeks. The club would also likely need a top holding midfielder, among other positions.
 

			
			PV: 
			0