The atmosphere at Old Trafford is such an unexciting one today. The club’s age long legacies are being undermined as the Red Devil club is seemingly on point give away to their opponents.
The abysmal results recorded at United so far this season despite their huge business at the last summer transfer window have left quite a distasteful moments among fans. The situation could necessitate urgent and desperate change at the club.
Owing to the above, National Daily learnt that one of the club’s legend and former captain Gary Neville is demanding that Manchester United executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward should not be in charge of the club’s transfers.
Gary Neville
Manchester United were beaten 1-0 by Newcastle United on Sunday, with Matty Longstaff netting the only goal of a poor game in the north east.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is under intense pressure to turn United’s fortunes around, with the club down in 12th in the table – five points behind the Champions League places.
But Neville reckons the blame lies solely with the board, saying the club has “gone backwards” in recent seasons.
Ed Woodward
“They had [Marouane] Fellaini, [Ander] Herrera, [Chris] Smalling, [Alexis] Sanchez, [Romelu] Lukaku and probably four or five others who either had their chance at the club, didn’t suit the style or didn’t want to be at the club,” said Neville on Sky Sports.
“He has got half of them out, there is no doubt Man United would be a better team today with those five players in the squad. Solskjaer probably knew that and so did the club.
“They were never going to get back to winning leagues and European cups with those players who have left.
“I disliked watching that group of players for two or three years.
“There was a lot not to like. I don’t believe the guy at the top should be there doing it anymore, I think he has had his chance but that is another story.
“The club has gone backwards in some senses in the short-term for what would be I think a better position in the longer term.
“At the moment from a football point of view they are well short in terms of quality and getting back to winning the league, but at least I like them, which is a start.
“I think the fans like them more, and they like the manager more.
“They have got to add another two or three transfer windows like they have had with [Aaron] Wan-Bissaka, [Daniel] James and [Harry] Maguire.
“They have panicked in previous summers so at least they didn’t panic in the summer.”




			
			PV: 
			0