As Jemibewon denies endorsement

Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State may have suffered a new setback in his campaign for re-election for a second tenure. The governor became a victim of false endorsement by elders in the state who held a meeting with the governor on issues of development of the state. The endorsement may have been a misinformation or false claim to deceive residents of the state of false popularity or acceptance of the embattled governor.
Apparently, an elder statesman in Kogi State, Major General David Jemibewon (rtd), at the weekend denied that he endorsed Governor Bello for a second tenure.
The former Minster of Police Affairs was said to have explained that Kogi West Elders Forum (KWEF) members were invited to a meeting with Governor Bello on development challenges of the state, noting that endorsement of Bello was not part of the deliberations.
Jemibewon was gathered to have decried that it was unfortunate that the communiqué of the meeting was “formulated” to include endorsement. He had maintained that “Endorsement of the governor” was not part of the discussions with KWEF leaders at the meeting with the governor.
“I went to the meeting for the good of my community (Kogi West). I went for the discussion on invitation and we did not talk of endorsement at the meeting. I could not have endorsed Governor Yahaya Bello of APC for second term.
“At my age, I am not looking for any favour. I am a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), even though it is not terribly serious, and to come out to say I adopt anybody is a kind of anti-party activity.
“At this stage of my life, I do not want to be accused of anti-party activities. As a member of the Peoples Democratic Party, I did not endorse Governor Bello.
“The way the communiqué was formulated was embarrassing, it was not circulated at the meeting. I did suggest they should send the communiqué to a former Attorney-General of the Federation, Chief Bayo Ojo, for vetting.
“The word endorsement, I cannot remember hearing it from anybody at the meeting,” Jemibewon had declared.
He further explained: “We were invited to meet with the governor and as a leader, I won’t say I don’t want to see him.
“We thought we were non-partisan.  We talked about security, payment of salaries and political appointments. Not a single word was used to indicate endorsement and I did not endorse Bello.
“I am still in PDP, I remain committed to the party.”

			
			PV: 
			0