Senator Clifford A. Ordia, Chairman, Senate Committee on Local and Foreign Debts, representing Edo Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly in his message marking Nigeria’s 59th independence anniversary, appealed for unity of Nigerian citizens towards solve the country’s numerous social, political and economic problems.
Senator Ordia in a statement wished all Nigerians, most particularly, the people of Edo Central Senatorial District, a very warm and happy independence celebration. He advocated for the rekindling of hope and sustenance of the aspiration for greater Nigeria despite the current challenges in the country.
“Let our hope be rekindled and dreams sustained. We may not be where we are supposed to be in terms of infrastructural development, socio-economic wellbeing, et’al, but I strongly believe that there will be light at the end of the tunnel.
“I specially enjoin all of us to come together irrespective of our political party affiliations, religious beliefs or creed for the purpose of lifting ourselves out of the present challenges ranging from lack of youth employment, economic failures, infrastructural decay, power failures, amongst others.”
The Senator, thereafter, listed some of the empowerment scheme in his district towards addressing extreme poverty.
“In the last few months, we have trained and empowered about 550 young men and women engaged in micro businesses, trained and empowered 150 persons in fish and poultry farming.
“Several others were given trade items like Motor cycles, Tomatoes Machines, Sewing Machines and generator sets to enhance their businesses.
“We have engaged in the construction of some access roads, primary health care centres, rehabilitation of schools including a hostel that will accommodate 150 students in Esan Grammar School, street light at Eguare, Irrua, provided jobs and boreholes in some communities
“We have been able to introduce and ensure the passage of a bill for the Establishment of Federal College of Education, Usugbenu and A bill for the Establishment of National Institute of Construction Technology (NICT), Uromi, which has received the assent of Mr. President.
“All these, we have done to alleviate the suffering of our people and to specifically meet some of our needs, though its work in progress.
“We shall continue to do more with your prayers and support,” Senator Ordia highlighted.
He assured the people of the open door policy of their representative, saying in part: “…our ears are wide open to constructive criticism and useful suggestions that will help us to deliver more on the mandate freely given to us by the people, and it is our promise not to betray the trust.”

			
			PV: 
			0