In commemoration of his 10th year as a recording artist, JoePraize organizes Praise Ovation, a musical concert holding at the 7000 capacity Loveworld Arena in Lekki, Lagos Nigeria.

Speaking at a Press Conference in Lagos, JoePraize said, “It’s been 10 successful years for me and if you don’t tell about it no one would know. In 10 years, there are so many people who rose but five years down the line you can’t remember them. But in 10 years, God has been faithful and he has given me access to so many places. I’m a ministry person and when it comes to gospel music you would see the impact I have made. For me, it’s not just another event it’s special for me in every way. But the spirit of God gave me this idea which is the praise of the fourth man and many people keep wondering what it’s all about. So, a series of events led to the story of the event which would hold this month.”

Holding on the 20th of October, 2019, the ‘Mighty God’ singer with over 65million views on his Youtube account, and several hit songs which includes multi award winning ‘Great and Mighty God’ ft. Grammy Award winners Soweto Gospel Choir explained and assured his invitees, that even though the event is not ticketed, the security, ambience, organization will be world class. With billboards currently seen at Admiralty way and many top social media influencers joining in the campaign, Praise ovation seems to be the next big event from the gospel music circle in Nigeria.


JoePraize is a praise and worship leader at the Love World a.k.a. Christ Embassy. He has ministered in several countries including South Africa, Canada, United Kingdom, United States, Australia, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, Cyprus, Nigeria, Ghana and others, and he has won several awards.

Some of the awards include the Song of the Year Award 2010, at the Love World Award with the song, “Mighty God”, which is track number five on his first album, My Praise. He was also nominated for Best African Gospel by SABC Crown Gospel Awards 2010, winner Best Wezt Africa at the Africa Gospel Music Awards UK 2011, the Love World Awards 2011, for Worship Song of the Year, best artiste of the year at the crystal award Nigeria, best gospel song at the Coson awards Nigeria, lifetime achievement at the gospel music awards Italy, collaborated with Ayo Vincent in her video “You Are Great”, which won the best video at the Crystal Awards for gospel artists in Nigeria, which held on the July 2014, special recognition award loveworld Australia in 2014.


He has been part of the various live recordings at the Christ embassy live DVD recording event across the years, Joe Praize also collaborated with Sinach at her live DVD recordings in 2011. He appeared in Worship in the Room, a live streaming recording event which took place on the 1st of April 2017 with thousands of people watching live via different platforms of social media and youtube .



















			
			PV: 
			0