Kylian Mbappe is widely regarded as one of the best strikers in the world today
        
 




 


Reports reaching National Daily have seen the former Red Devils striker Louis Saha advising Manchester United to “break the bank” to sign Paris Saint-Germain forward Kylian Mbappe.
ouis Saha is of the opinion that Man Utd should rather broke and sign Mbappe
This development has left the Old Trafford fans who cannot underplay their undeniable need to acquire the services of a world class striker to boost their firepower in ecstatic mood.
No doubt, United have been short up top this season after parting company with Romelu Lukaku and Alexis Sanchez in the summer and failing to replace them.
Injuries to Anthony Martial and Marcus Rashford has only made the problem worse, with United netting just 10 in nine games this campaign.]
The Red Devils are in desperate need of signing a front man in January and have been linked to a number of players, including Juventus striker Mario Mandzukic.
But former United forward Saha thinks the Old Trafford club should just go for broke and sign the best in the business; his compatriot, Mbappe.
Kylian Mbappe is widely regarded as one of the best strikers in the world today
“If you ask me, I would break the bank for Mbappe, but now it’s too late,” Saha told Compare.Bet. “But, when you look at strikers, it’s a dying breed. Lewandowski is a rare example of someone who is left, and I don’t see many players that can easily fit up front.
“I had views on some strikers like [Duvan] Zapata who I think is a decent player, very strong.
“There is a need for somebody up front who is strong enough to hold the ball and to give time and space to the players like Paul Pogba and McTominay to create something in midfield to put passes together.
“This football is really down to possession, but hard on young players especially when they don’t have confidence.
“You need a couple of big strong characters to talk to people, to do the dirty jobs, winning duels, and to help the fans react. I think that’s what we want to see.
“When we lose we have that challenge that nobody likes. Passing is nice but you don’t hurt anybody.”




			
			PV: 
			0