Governor Yahaya Bello, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State may have developed phobia after the mega campaign of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the weekend in the state. The mammoth crowd that trooped out at the PDP rally was interpreted to reflect rejection of Governor Bello and acceptance of the PDP and its candidate. The crowd was said to have reinforced the momentum of the PDP in Kogi State.
The PDP in a statement on Sunday by Kola Ologbondiyan, National Publicity Secretary, indicated that the unprecedented crowd that surged at the official flag-off of its governorship campaign in Lokoja, Kogi State, on Friday, despite threats of violence by the All Progressives Congress (APC), was a resounding declaration by the people that nothing will stop them from kicking Governor Yahaya Bello out of office on November 16.
The party maintained that the crowd was also an unmistaken demonstration of the fact that Kogi remains a home to the PDP, which will further manifest in PDP’s landslide victory at the November 16 election.
The PDP noted that the earthshaking jubilation and ovations that greeted its candidate, Engr. Musa Wada, and his running mate, Hon Sam Aro, established the people’s confidence and preference for the PDP and its candidate, over and above Yahaya Bello, who has failed them on all fronts.
The PDP remarked that the party had been made aware of the gloom, hopelessness and dejection in the Bello camp, which is depleting by the day, following Engr. Wada’s soaring popularity and acceptability across the voting demography across Kogi State.
“Yahaya Bello is gradually coming to terms with the fact that he will soon found himself standing alone to face his inevitable prize for failure and disdain for the people of Kogi State.
“Governor Bello now knows that the people of Kogi State cannot be intimidated by threats of violence neither can they be bought, enticed or beguiled with filthy offers. “They have since made up their minds to repay Bello in his own coin for the pain and anguish he inflicted on them in the last four years and nothing can change this resolve.
“The only thing that is collectively paramount to the people of Kogi State is that Yahaya Bello is voted out to make way for a purposeful, people-oriented and transparent administration under Engr. Wada,” the PDP declared:
The PDP commended the people of Kogi State for their unity, resilience and courage in the face of machinations, threats, assaults and manipulations by the sinking Yahaya Bello and the APC.
The party also commended the patriotism of members of the APC that have crossed over to the PDP in the last few weeks, to queue behind Engr. Wada, having realized that the liberation and repositioning of Kogi State in the interest of the people can only be attained through the PDP and Engr Wada.
The party, therefore, urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security forces to resist the shenanigans of the APC and remain on the side of truth and fairness as Kogites will never accept any process that does not reflect their will and aspiration in this election.
 
 

			
			PV: 
			0