When one of Kano’s Gov. Abdulahi Ganduje referred to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as V.P. Academics, many angry Nigerians thought the aide a goofball.
But Osinbajo himself never complained.
The law professor had no reason to.
By profession, he’s one of the brainboxes Nigerians can count in their ivory towers currently. And, by nature, the veepee is a teacher—power-point versatile and narrative.
You had to be at the state house on October 1 when he creased up his audience of VIPs in parties, government and business during a chalk-talk—you can call it a dinner— commemorating Nigeria’s 59th independence anniversary.
From describing his boss Muhammadu Buhari as the swankiest geezer in Nigeria to sharing hair-raising anecdotes  about Nigerian uniqueness in fashion, sports, slang, and dance (from the Senate to the streets)—Osinbajo was really in his elements as an academic (not only in law of evidence, but also in things as sensuous as Beyonce’s sexed-up Ankara dress on Vogue cover).
Blame him?
No.
How else can a flag-waiving vice president make the best of his fine skull on such occasion?
He started with a display of Buhari in his `trade mark black kaftan’.
The V.P. then described the president as “the number one man with the swag”.
He said the `Nigerian swag’ is that uniquely confident way that made Nigerians to stand out everywhere and in everything they did.
Osinbajo cited the sport called Bobsled and presented a power point video of Nigerians girls dancing at the Winter Olympics.
“They thought only white people could do this because it is a winter sport; if you don’t have winter and snow in your country you can’t be a bobsled champion.
“Well, so they thought until the Nigerians came to the Winter Olympics in Pyeong Chang South Korea, three Nigerian girls.
“Seun Adigun, Ngozi onwumere and Akuoma Omeoga the first Africans in Bobsled at the Winter Olympics.
“They raced into history in style and they ended it with dance. How else would you know that they are Nigerians.’’
According to him,  the World Cup came in May 2018; but well before the World Cup kicked off, Nigeria had started winning.
Osinbajo recalled that when Nike released the design of Nigeria’s jersey called Naija in Feb. 2018, three million people pre-ordered the Jersey for 90 dollar a piece on line.
He said that eventually thousands of people lined up to buy the jersey and it sold out in the stores within hours.
“The jersey was lit; so lit that we won the first prize for the best dressed team, Peru came second and Belgium came third.’’
The vice president listed the quality and prowess of Nigerian boxer, Anthony Joshua, Nigerian wedding, dance and language as some other aspects of Nigerian uniqueness.
“And then there is Anthony Joshua, as far as we are concerned the best boxer in the world not only is he a heavy hitter– he could also pass for a model; so much Swag.
“How about the Nigerian wedding, it has become the toast of the world, among other things, we are teaching the world that every wedding deserves a hashtag.
“#Baad 2017, for BankyW and Adesuwa Etomi, #YemiandDolly 1989 or #Dolyem 1989 , that’s me and my lovely wife, to the dramatic entrance of the bridal party, and see the groom flying and of course, the Aso Ebi.
“And everywhere, they are learning our languages; everywhere, here is a kindergarten class in China; the children are learning Igbo; very soon, everyone is going to be speaking Igbo.
“Our contemporary dances have so much swag from Skelewu to Sekem to Shakiti Bobo, Sakusaku and the most recent, Zanku, I am sure you all know how to gbe se ..gbe se .to gbe body e.
“It is now gbe se, gbe se, all over the world; nobody dances like us; it doesn’t matter whether you are the distinguished senator representing Kogi west or the distinguished senator representing Osun West.’’
Osinbajo also listed one of the richest men in Africa, Aliko Dangote, President Muhammadu Buhari, former President Olusegun Obasanjo as among those who carry Nigerian swag with their dance steps.
According to him, when it comes to fashion, Nigerians are the masters of style.
“From the geles, and look at what Iya Rainbow is wearing, and of course the famous Madam Kofo’s gele. Nigerians brought Ankara to mainstream fashion.
“So Nigerian designers are making waves internationally with the infusion of Ankara in their collections.
“And the likes of Lisa Folawiyo, Mackie O, Andrew Iyamah, Kenneth Ize, Mowa Ogunlesi, have been featured in Vogue and other international fashion magazines and events such as the New York fashion week.
“The Nigerian-American designer Ena Udemba designed Beyoncé’s drop dead gorgeous Ankara outfit; today the whole world is wearing our Ankara; from Michelle Obama, Rihana and Kim Kardashian”, he said.

			
			PV: 
			0