By Olanrewaju Adesanya 



To aid functional and seamless legislation,Rt Hon Mudashiru Obasa has constituted 36 the standing committees of the House

Constituting the committees,the Speaker Obasa hinted the need to decisively effect structural arrangements in the workings of the house as the ninth Assembly had been operating with Ad-Hoc committees since its inauguration on June 7.

The Selection Committee Chiarman was headed by the Speaker himself and the Chief Whip, Hon Rotimi Abiru chairs the Ethics and privileges Committee.

The house committee on House Services is to be chaired by Hon. Tijani Olatunji, Public Accounts (local), Hon. Fatai Mojeed, Agric, Hon. Kehinde Joseph, Economic Planning and Budget, Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu, Special Duties and intergovernmental Relations, Hon. Kazeem Raheem, and Education, Hon. Yinka Ogundimu.

Other committees are, Science and Technology, chaired by Hon. Olanrewaju Afini, Environment, Hon. Desmond Elliot, Energy and Mineral Resources,Hon. Folajimi Mohammed, Waterfront Infrastructures, Hon. Ibrahim Layode, Physical planning and Urban Development, Hon. Nurudeen Akinsanya Procurement, Hon. Lukman Olumoh and Transportation, Hon. Temititope Adewale.

The rest are; Commerce and Industry, Hon. Sanni Okanlawon, Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Hon. Mojisola Meranda, Works and Infrastructure, Abiodun Tobun, Wealth Creation, Hon. Jude Idimogu, CBD, Hon. Mojisola Alli- Macualy, Health Services, Hon Akeem Shokunle, Establishment, Pension and Training, Hon. Rasheed Makinde, Interparliamentary, Hon. Fatai Oluwa and Finance, Hon. Rotimi Olowo.

Committee on Tourism, Hon. Saka Solaja, Youth and Sports, Hon. Olowobi Ajani, Judiciary, Human Rights, Public Petitions and LASIEC, Hon. Victor Akande, Lands, Hon. Adedamola Kasunmu, Housing, Hon. Bisi Yusuff, Information and Strategy, Hon. Tunde Braimoh, Local Government Administration, Hon. Olayiwola Sobur, Legislative Compliance, Hon. Rauf Age-Sulaiman, Overseas and Investment, Hon. Sylvester Ogunkelu and Public Private Partnership, Hon. Noheem Adams.




			
			PV: 
			0