The Kogi state judiciary has vowed not to swear Edward Onoja, as the incoming Deputy Governor, insisting that the report of the investigation panel set up by the Chief Judge of the state, Justice Nasir Ajanah, sent to the state House should be considered.
The immediate past Deputy Governor, Elder Simon Achuba was on Friday impeached by the state House of Assembly, even though a report by a panel set up by the state’s Chief Judge, Justice Nasir Ajanah to investigate allegations against him exonerated Achiba of any wrong doing.
Even as Achuba was protesting the impeachment, and insisted that he remains the deputy governor of the confluence stage, the state House of Assembly had received a nominated name, Edward Onoja, as the incoming Deputy Governor.
According a reliable source, the judiciary had vowed to turn their back on the swearing of Onoja because their report on Achuba was neglected by the lawmakers.
Reacting to the development, the immediate past chairman of APC in the state, Chief Haddy Ametuo said “The Chief Judge will swear Onoja in on Monday. But before then, the lawmakers would sit to reconsider the appeal report before them on the matter. They will also work on judiciary position on the matter. But I can tell you that Onoja is already the deputy governor”.
Also, one of the governor’s aides, Gbenga Olorunpomi, said “The decision to swear in the new deputy or not is best known to the CJ. He has the decision. And I cannot speak for him. I work with the governor, and as far as I know, the status quo remains the pronouncements of the lawmakers on the impeachment. They said they had used their constitutional power to impeach Achuba and that was it”.
On his part, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Onogwu Muhammed, said the lawmakers would screen Onoja on Monday before any talk of swearing-in by the Judiciary.
On the report of the judiciary investigative panel that exonerated Achuba of allegations leveled against him, the CPS said “That is between the judiciary and executive. Whatever happens between them, they will know how to settle it. And I don’t see that coming into play in the case of the incoming Deputy Governor”, the CPS said.





			
			PV: 
			0