Sports philanthropist, Rev Mother Esther Abimbola Ajayi, the General Overseer of Love of Christ Generation Church in the United Kingdom has endorsed the official jersey of the Asisat Oshoala Football for Girls Africa Project.
The jersey endorsement was done alongside members of the Asisat Oshoala Foundation in Lagos yestetday ,  Rev Mother Esther Ajayi and her amiable husband.
National Daily learnt that the 5th edition of the Asisat Oshoala Football4girls Clinic proudly sponsored by Rev Mother Esther Ajayi in partnership with the Asisat Oshoala Foundation will place in December.
“I am really happy to be part of Asisat Oshoala Foundation programme. Asisat is a young girl who is doing Nigeria proud in far away Spain for Barcelona women team. Sports is a tool that unify all tribes. We should encourage our young ones to go into sports and also give back to the society,” Rev Mother Esther Ajayi said.
Rev Mother Esther  Abimbola Ajayi, the General Overseer of Love of Christ Generation Church, United Kingdom has been the major financial and supporter of Asisat Oshoala Foundation. She had been seen as a strong pillar behind the success story of the pet project of Oshoala, the captain of Nigerian Super Falcons.
Asisat manager told our reporter that  notable  present and former Nigerian footballers among whom are Obafemi Martins, Ahmed Musa, Austin ‘Jay Jay’ Okocha, Kanu Nwankwo, Victor Ikpeba, Taribo West, Peter Rufai, Vincent Enyeama, Victor Oshimen, Kenneth Omerou , Segun Odegbami,Victor Agali, Ramon Azzez, Togolese Emmanuel Adebayor and other stars will trade tackles in an all star exhibition game between Team Esther Ajayi and Team Sanwo-Olu scheduled to take place from 20-24 December at the Campus mini stadium on Lagos Island.
Asisat Oshoala will train 1, 000 girls the basic rudiments  of football during the football camp, Already, over 500 girls have confirmed participation from Benin Republic, Ghana, Kenya  and South Africa.
The Asisat Oshoala Football4girls Africa Project is sanctioned by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Lagos State Sports Commission and the Lagos State Football Association,

			
			PV: 
			0