MI took his beef with Vector to the BBNaija 2019 house. And many agree that he used his performance seems to shade his fellow rapper.
Deliberately performing Anoti, Undisputed Champion and Bad Belle and wearing a “No Snakes” shirt, it was clear to fans and doubting Thomases that the beef just got on.
Only a day before the stage performance, he released his diss track which has continued to receive positive reviews from the public. Some were disappointed, however, that he failed to perform the diss track. Yet, some opine that his carefully selected songs were enough to reaffirm his status as the “king of rap.”
He has also promised that the shirt will be available to the public soon.
You may also want to read our reporter’s (Ediale Kingsley) open letter on the Dear M.I vs. Vector saga:
Dear M.I vs. Vector,
Well, well, well!!!
We hear you guys.
And we have no competition at hand. M.I vs Vector? This is no battle. It’s against the rule. No one puts a featherweight in a boxing ring to challenge a heavyweight.
In 2013, M.I paid N18m to get a rap verse in a track. As at that time. We didn’t know anyone that could pay that kind of money for rap album (album, not to talk of a track) project. But M.I’s Chocolate City paid such money to have Nas spit on a verse.
Today, Vector still can’t afford such amount to have such collabo. Why am I talking about N18, 000, 000? Sure it shouldn’t be about who’s got more coins.
And before I argue further. I like to introduce Vector the Viper. In Vector vs. Reminisce, Vector killed Reminisce with one basic line, one dope line, niggar told Remi, “Cos you bleach your skin doesn’t mean you are enlightened”. And that was a knockout.
So it’s not like dude hasn’t got the skills or vibes. This one is just more beef than he can chew. Cos M.I and Vector is not comparable. And that’s why M.I wasn’t really truly excited about this one. His diss track lacks that enthusiasm.
And so from the very title (The Viper) to the end of the verse. We hear M.I rather tell a story. What M.I gave us was a rap report, one a Wikipedia could use. This kind of diss wasn’t really going to make him any badder. This was not the beginning when he had to dethrone Rugged Man and co.
This is now, when rap is not just rap. And the street lords all have their thrones. So M.I would even be more excited to face one of those street kings than a certain Vector. And that’s why he said in his diss track, “You’re not even top 5 from Yorubaland; Mode, Eldee, Bahdo, Dagrin, Remi, YCEE and Falz, Omo see the queue”.
See what he did with CDQ up there. Some sweet puns that also makes this battle interesting. As in, side by side, placing both tracks for critique sake. Vector still doesn’t win.
And yeah, Vector didn’t exactly submit a no-punchline diss track for us to enjoy. He opened Tetracycling with, “All liars go to hell, guess am bringing the fire”. And the listener would think the song was going to feature a lot of such dope line.
On the contrary, the song has so many lazy lyrics. And lines like, “When I been dey gamble all the lines shey u dey bet for me (Shuuu). Abi na you pay school fees when I dey Greg’s for me (Shuuu). Get off my manhood, Eyin wey shey eyin le pon mi”, sounds like what your regular bus conductor would spit to a policeman claiming ‘staff’.
And yet he claims, “You see na this kind line wey we dey yarn, wey dey win best rapper lyricist, and I don’t have to make a scene”.
And I am like, “no be these kind lines o”.
So if you wanted to enjoy both works of dissing as literature. And you arrange them in paragraphs. Without beats and sounds, you would still award M.I for best narrative technique and for having a product that offers better literature value.
Then you take both songs and enjoy with beats and sound. M.I still wins it, for best delivery. Now back to those rap artistes that M.I rated above Vector:
Mode 9
Eldee
Olamide Bahdo
Dagrin
Remi
YCEE
Falz
CDQ
 
Why would any of these rappers bring a more challenging battle to the table?
 
Mode 9 as a course would still take Vector years of study. Eldee may have retired but he still has a shadow that can challenge Vector. And when you think of all the people Eldee helped in the music industry against Vector’s zero. You’ll give it to the Tribesmen legend.
 
Let’s not talk about Olamide, even M.I would tread with caution. We already talked about Reminisce. His beef battle with Vector ended with Vector winning by bars. But who’s got more endorsements? Who’s got more deals? You answer is as good as mine, Reminisce.
 
YCEE may have started just yesterday. Already he’s rubbing shoulders with Vector. CDQ is already a dictator. And what Falz did with music and movies. Vector tried it and didn’t succeed. Plus let’s face it, who would you rather have on your show? Falz or Vector?
 
Yeah, I know it’s a rhetorical question.
 
And for these many reasons, rather than battle, M.I commits to prayer session and biblical allusions. Offering to school, teach and preach to Vector.
 
And if you choose to defend both diss tracks before a customary judge. M.I’s lawyer would have a lesser job convincing the jury or the judge. His stories relate and where he killed it was when he said Vector hasn’t help anybody all these years in the music industry.
 
And even his manager than was there for him in the period he was in prison. Got fired by Vector. And M.I talked about how same manager got employed by him at Chocolate City, with Vector in his CV.
 
And that was a good close. Finishing.
 
Your Beef spotter,
Ediale
#ForTheCulture
 
PS: This beef reminds us that Vector is still in the business of making music. We almost forgot.




			
			PV: 
			0