Activists and journalists got a little ruffled up Friday at the EFCC headquarters in Abuja as effort to make the agency probe the trending bullion van saga to which it responded days ago.
Days ago, the agency said that nobody had brought any petition to probe the APC  national leader Bola Tinubu in whose house the van emptied its contents during the last presidential election.
The convener, Concerned Nigerians, Deji Adeyanju, however brought and submitted a petition Friday.
Other activists who signed the petition were Ariyo-Dare Atoye of the Coalition in Defence of Nigerian Democracy and Constitution; and Adebayo Raphael of the Free Nigeria Movement.
The activists who visited the EFCC head office on Friday morning, addressed the petition to the EFCC Acting Chairman, Ibrahim Magu, and titled it, ‘Petition to investigate the source of money conveyed in bullion vans to the home of Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu on the eve of 2019 presidential election.’
But while Adeyanju was mounted a soapbox, addressing journalists by the road leading to the EFCC office, armed security men attached to the Commission ordered Adeyanju to stop.
“You will not do the right thing. You will come and be harassing ordinary citizens,” the activist protested.
“Why would you tell me to leave this place? The harassment is too much. This is a public institution.”
Continuing,  Adeyanju reminded his audience how the EFCC challenged Nigerians that the reason they cannot investigate Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu over the election eve bullion vans sighted at his residence was because there was no petition to that effect.
“Some of us have already taken up the challenge which is exactly the reason we are here and, basically, I believe that, as citizens of our country, we must always ensure that the right thing is done at all times.
“You can see that, even as we are addressing the Press, members of the EFCC are harassing us, instead of going to Bourdillon to go and do this work.
“To the best of our knowledge, Mr Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a private citizen who ordinarily should not be seen with a convoy of bullion vans.
“The questions begging for answers are: What are bullion vans doing in the house of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu? ‪Who owns the content, believing to be cash in the bullion vans that were seen entering the house of Bola Ahmed Tinubu on the eve of Nigerian presidential elections?
“Has the commission, based on its core mandates, investigated the source of the Bullion Vans? ‪Is Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s house, now a bank where Bullion Vans now take money to?”
 
 

			
			PV: 
			0