Bulgaria vs England’s Euro 2020 qualifiers ended 6-0 in favor of the Three Lions. Chelsea forward Tammy Abraham was not used in this encounter by England coach – Ross Barkley and Raheem Sterling both scored brace each for England in this tie Chelsea striker Tammy Abraham was on Monday night, October 14, benched in England’s emphatic 6-0 win over Bulgaria in Euro 2020 qualifiers.
After playing only three minutes in England’s last game against Czech Republic, Tammy Abraham would have hoped to get a chance against Bulgaria, but he could not. England were superb in this encounter as they gave Bulgaria no chance scoring the first goal in the 7th minute via Marcus Rashford. Ross Barkley scored the second goal for England in the 20th minute after receiving a great assist from Raheem Sterling.
The Chelsea star netted his brace in the 32nd minute and it was Harry Kane who provided the assist for him. Manchester City winger Raheem Sterling went on to score a brace in the 45th and 69th minute respectively before Harry Kane netted the last goal for England to win 6-0. Meanwhile, the encounter between Bulgaria and England was marred with racial abuse for the English players in which the match was pulsed twice.
It’s no longer news that Tammy Abraham openly confessed that his dream has always been to represent his country of birth England at topflight level. The Chelsea striker has in the past been lured to switch allegiance to Nigeria, but the 21-year-old opted to join Gareth Southgate’s squad when he was called up.
In an open letter to Tammy Abraham, Ediale Kingsley expressed why the Chelsea star has being called a 3 mins man. See letter below:
Dear Tammy Abraham,
3 mins.

1, 2, 3.
3 mins was all it took for you to make you an English player forever.

How Southgate lured you in.
And then sealed you up on the Bench.

“Fantastic English player! He is the highest goal scorer in the EPL at the moment. He is this. He is that.”

All they said to justify your call up to Englands National team.

Now you are in. What do they do?

Relegate your brown skin ass to the bench!
But…
Not your fault?

Who wants to play for the Super Eagles anyway?
Not me.
Victor Moses easily quitted. I am not sure he even called his father to tell him before writing us a sack letter.
Jude Ighalo also dumped us. Small insult, small play, my brother threw in the towel.
If Victor Moses or Jude Ighalo see the National team any valuable. They would have had second thoughts before jilting the Super Eagles.
They saw from within. Many things outsiders like us can’t see. They know team green white green is a joke.
World Cup is far from them. Nation’s Cup is far from them. Bronze is their friend.
Who came to this life to win only Bronze? Not Tammy Abraham. You can ass-kiss the bench all through your career for England until they pick a gold.
You can play 3mins or 3 seconds all through. So long you will get your Salary as at when due. So long you will get your peace of mind. So long you won’t come to Malaria-laden Africa for international breaks and competitions. So long their shit hole mentality has no business with you. So long their juju is far.

You can endure a few racist attacks. No problem. You have pitched your tent with Team England. After all, you don’t even know Nigeria. All your life and career has been in England.

Well. We won’t miss you too. Or you would have been useful. Rohr said you would have been a second choice. Meaning instead of having that tall for small thing Paul come in against Brazil on Sunday. We would have had you.

Even that dude got more than 3 mins. So you would have got more time in Super Eagles.

If we had you. Maybe we would have beaten Brazil on Sunday.

We have many other good players out there though. So enjoy your bench in three lions.

Your Benched Ass spotter,
Ediale
#ForTheCulture.
PS: 3mins man.

			
			PV: 
			0