Come the 2nd of November, 2019, the ancient city of Abeokuta will be agog with the maiden edition of the 10km marathon race organized by the Bukola Olopade led NILAYO SPORT MANAGEMENT LTD. For Nilayo, it is not their first in road racing, as they have consistently put together the world famous, Access Bank Lagos City Marathon Race, for 4 years – with outstanding successes to show for,National Daily learnt.
Coming to Abeokuta, for the managing director of NILAYO SPORTS, Hon. Bukola Olopade, who was the youngest Sports’ commissioner in Ogun state, 12years ago speaks more of patriotism than profit making. But within a space of 6 months, awareness skyrocketed and residents of Abeokuta & neighbouring communities have shown interest by registering as participants, while some professionals have signified interests as volunteers needed for the smooth sailing of the November 2nd event.
Of great significance are the benefits the race brings to Ogun State. Fitness and positive youth engagement tops the numerous advantages of such a sporting event, as the 10km race will provide a platform for fitness and quality youth participation, which effect will curb the menace of weird youthful exuberance. And from this end, some youth can pick special interest in athletic.
Another good side is the tourism development, and cultural exposition. No doubt, many road racers will be coming from outside Ogun state and some from outside the shores of Nigeria. Bringing them to the rocky city of Abeokuta will help expose Olumo rock, the centenary Ake monuments, Obasanjo presidential library edifice as well as the Adiire market amongst others.
Also, of note is the economic implications of having this race. Businesses in Abeokuta are earnestly preparing for the D-day. JAC Motors, Access Bank, Landwey properties as well as Bet9ja are notable corporate organizations who have thrown their weights behind this noble venture – it is not gainsaying that they know the worth and they just can’t be left out, hence their show of support.
The new administration of Prince Dapo Abiodum, MFR must be on look, study the terrain and evaluate the Ministry of Youth & Sport Development, so that after November 2nd, the youth are further engaged with other sporting activities, so Ogun state can regain her lost glory.

			
			PV: 
			0