It’s no longer news that the price of Rice has risen astronomically. And the Federal Government stiff regulations on foreign brands have triggered the economics of the commodity. As National Daily has earlier reported some rice dealers in major markets across Lagos State are allegedly packing locally manufactured rice into foreign bags, as prices jump higher.
Further observation reveals that the visited markets now have various brands of locally made rice in large stock, although with a significant 12.9% increase in price. A 50kg bag of Caprice and Royal Stallion rice increased by 2.9%, from an average of N25,500 to N26,250. Mama’s Pride rice, a locally grown rice, also increased significantly by 9.7% from an initial average of N18,000 to N19,750.
But back in 2016, to ease burden on residents in the festive season, the Lagos state government made provisions for a 50kg bag of rice to be sold at N12,000.
In a time like this, Lagosians now remember Governor Ambode Akinwunmi.
Then, Twenty-five kg was sold at N6,000, while 10kg went for N2,500.
And people bought from the subsidized traders rather than spend as high as N18,000 on a bag of rice.                                                         
Here are the designated zones where they Lagosians got the special offer, as an initiative of Lagos and Kebbi governments.
REGION LOCATION
Ikorodu  Odogunyan Farm Service Centre
Epe                        Temu Farm Service Centre
Eredo                     Noforija Town Hall
Ibeju                     Magbon Alade High School
Maryland               SUBEBE Premises
Agege                   LSADA Complex/Farm Service Centre
Ojo                       LAISA Office Agric Bus Stop
Mowo                    Coconut House
Badagry                Town Farm Service Centre, Marina
Oshodi               Ikeja Grammar School, Bolade
Ajah                   Ministry of Agric Area Office
Lagos Island       Lastma Office Adeniji/Freeman
Ajegunle             Alakoto Senior High School, Tolu
Surulere             Teslim Balogun stadium
Yaba                  Mobolaji Johnson Sports Centre, Rowe Park










			
			PV: 
			0