What kind of revenues are brought in by casinos in Nigeria? A new website called FOX9JA investigated and is now releasing all of this information.
What kind of revenues are brought in by casinos in Nigeria? A new website called FOX9JA investigated and is now releasing all of this information.
When it comes to casinos in Nigeria, it can be difficult to discover the truth about what they are making and what they are giving back to players.

For example, Bet9Ja has a Welcome bonus, which is matching funds up to 100,000 naira. You can use that money as a Bet9Ja free bet. But you’ll have to play it through at least 10 times. Does this reflect the profits Bet9Ja is making? Or is it something other than Bet9Ja’s profit margins that is driving its welcome bonus?
These are the type of questions that FOX9JA decided to analyze when their site launched. BetKing is an instance of this in-depth research. BetKing bonus is worth your attention as you may get up to 100,000 naira in matching funds. One could wonder if that means they are bringing in much more profit than Bet9Ja is.
FOX9JA used a combination of public records and insider contacts at all of these casinos to figure out what the truth is. Then they turned that truth into a graphic so that everyone can see the difference between BetKing profit and that of Bet9Ja.

One of the welcome offers that were intriguing to the experts at FOX9JA was that of Nairabet. They have a low minimum deposit required to claim the welcome bonus; it is only 50 naira. And they will match your funds up to 50,000 naira. Does that put them in the middle of the pack?
FOX9JA has tracked down every naira bet at the casino so they could get a better understanding of what kind of profits were being made and how that ends up affecting local gamblers.
One casino that intrigued the experts at FOX9JA was Merrybet. They give no welcome bonus at all. That’s considerably different than Bet9Ja’s bonus. Instead, they will give you back 5% of your losses every week to use as a free bet. Plus, if you refer a friend you will be credited with half of their first loss amount. Does this indicate a casino that’s making a huge profit or one that seems to be really struggling?
These are the kinds of facts you will learn when you read FOX9JA opinion and find out what they have uncovered.

FOX9JA also gives full, detailed reviews of all the casinos they looked into. Bet9Ja has one of the most extensive reviews found on the site. You’ll learn who owns the various casinos, what their odds are like and what they have to offer.
This can be especially interesting to the average gambler who is simply trying to make an informed decision about the most responsible place to make their wager.
FOX9JA found out that there is only one casino that makes 20 times as much money as any other online casino in Nigeria. Does that mean they have international connections and can run a more effective advertising campaign? Or do they simply offer a higher level of service to their customers?
The website leveraged their sources and found out the truth. This information is generally not available to the average gambler in Nigeria. FOX9JA dug deep and provide you with detailed graphics and comprehensive reviews.
As a result, FOX9JA exposes the entire casino industry as a whole – not just Bet9Ja, but also every single casino that operates in Nigeria.

This gives you a picture of what is the best place to spend your money at. Do you feel more comfortable with the safety of a huge international casino? Or would you rather patronize a smaller casino and reinvest your money in the Nigerian economy?
The choice is yours – but before you decide to bet at Bet9Ja or BetKing you should know the difference, so you place your bet wisely.
 

			
			PV: 
			0