Definitely if there is one thing that Ole Gunnar Solskjaer desires now, it obviously will be his possibility of a complete and healthy squad of his superstars to face their arch-rivals in Liverpool on Sunday.
Man United who have been in a terrible form as they occupy 12th position on the EPL table and just two above relegation teams welcome Liverpool at Old Trafford on Sunday. The match may be a make or mar game for the Man United manager Solskjaer bearing in mind that such encounter spelt doom for his predecessor.
It is noteworthy to remember that Mourinho recently delivered a damning assessment of Man United current predicament claiming that they have got worse under his successor Ole Gunnar Solskjaer.
Mourinho giving his assessment of poor Man United current situation
While most Liverpool fans will have been focused on the probable return of main man Alisson Becker between the sticks, the Reds might have been given an unexpected boost with a possible injury to arch nemesis David de Gea.
De Gea limping off in pain with groin injury
The long-time Manchester Unted number one was subbed off after an hour last night, in Spain’s 1-1 draw to Sweden for Euro 2020 qualifying. De Gea left the pitch with an apparent groin injury, making him a doubt for Sunday’s match against Liverpool.
Now, De Gea has hardly been the fearsome shot-stopper that he was just a few short years ago, but on his day he can still be one of the world’s best. And, more often than not, he’s had his day against Liverpool.
If De Gea misses out, it will be yet another big blow for Manchester United. The crowd will no doubt be “up for it,” hoping to throw a spanner in the works against their rival, just as they did with last year’s scoreless draw during the ill-fated title run-in.
Instead, United will likely be relying on 32-year-old Argentinian back-up keeper Sergio Romero. Romero has two starts so far this season for United, one a piece in the Europa League and League Cup.
Sergio Romero as a back-up for De Gea

			
			PV: 
			0