The All Progressives Congress (APC), in Bayelsa State, has suspended its state Chairman, Hon. Jothan Amos, Secretary, Comrade Alabo Martins and 10 others over alleged fraudulent diversion of party funds and anti-party activities.
The suspension which is coming barely one month to the November 16 governorship election in the state was carried out by factional members of the party loyal to the immediate past Minister of State for Agriculture, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri.
But on the other side, the factions loyal to the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, announced the suspension of Hon. Ogeibiri Orubebe, deputy chairman; Chris Toborowei Olorogun, Legal Adviser; Amasighan Azikiwe, Chairman Ekeremor local government council; Olorogun Isaac, Secretary Ekeremor Local government council and Peter Bofumu, Chairman Sagbama Local government council.
The Senator Lokpobiri’s faction of the party announced the suspension of Mr. Jothan Amos, State Chairman; Mr. Martins Alabo, State Secretary; Mr. Peres Oyadongha, Senatorial Youth Leader; Mr. Iniekenimi Senator Mitin, LGA Youth Leader Ekeremor; Mr. John K. Williams, LGA Organizing Secretary Ekeremor; Mr. Osadebe Ezinrin, LGA Treasurer Ekeremor; and Lovely Agwor, LGA Organizing Secretary Sagbama.
Their action, according to a resolution signed by 19 members of the State Executive Committee was pursuant to the report of the State 4-man Disciplinary Committee over formal complaints against various party officials.
According to a resolution made available to newsmen, the suspended party chairman, is accused of “refusal to account for millions of naira that accrued to the state chapter of the party as administrative charges on National and State Assembly aspirants.
Following the development, the Bayelsa State Executive Committee of the APC has appointed the State Vice Chairman, Bayelsa Central, Chief Fala Ebierein Etubo as Acting Chairman in line with the party’s constitution.
But the sylva’s faction of the Party led by the State chairman of the party, Jothan Amos explained in alliance with the resolution reached by the committee that, the aforementioned people were suspended due to gross misconduct and anti-party activities which was reported and investigated.
He said, after the direct primaries of the party which saw the emergence of Chief David Lyon as the party’s candidate for the November 16 elections, it is expected that whatever diverse interest anyone had before the primary, should have been dropped for the overall interest of the party.
According to him, the said persons’ refusal to drop the pursuit of their personal interest, is a clear indication that they are against the party and their actions could mar the predicted success of the party, necessitating their indefinite suspension from the party.

			
			PV: 
			0