Manchester United have endured some terrible displays prior to their game against Liverpool at the weekend leaving them languishing in the second half of the English Premier League table. Such poor performances have seen none of their players made it to EPL team in the recent weeks.

Interestingly, the Old Trafford fans have finally had reason to celebrate as Marcus Rashford found his way into EPL team of week 19 due to his excellent display against Liverpool.
 
Ederson pulls off an incredible save to deny Benteke
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer added an extra centre-half into his starting lineup, and a smart counter-attacking display had them 1-0 up thanks to Marcus Rashford.
But Adam Lallana tapped home late in the day to hand Jurgen Klopp’s men a share of the spoils, continuing their run of just one loss in their last 48 league games.
Below is the Week 19 EPL team:
Ederson (Manchester City)
The Brazilian produced two outstanding saves late in the day to ensure a clean sheet and a City victory in south London.
His finger-tip stop to deny Christian Benteke – tipping the Belgian’s header onto the crossbar – was perhaps the best save of the season so far.
Joao Cancelo (Manchester City)
The Portuguese international was given the nod at right-back for City at Selhurst Park and impressed as they returned to winning ways.
Cancelo, up against Wilfred Zaha for large spells, produced a smart defensive display – winning more tackles than anyone else on the field – and offered an overlapping threat in attack also.
Chris Basham (Sheffield United)
The 31 year-old was the Blades’ Mr. Versatile last season, operating wherever asked to by Chris Wilder.
Chris Basham was excellent in frustrating Arsenal’s attack all night
This term he’s made a spot on the right of the back three and was excellent in shackling Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang on Monday night – as well as stepping into midfield and getting the Blades on the front foot.
Ibrahim Amadou (Norwich City)                                                                         
Daniel Farke’s Canaries arrived at Bournemouth having failed to keep a clean sheet since returning to the Premier League.
But they managed to do just that on the south coast, keeping the Cherries quiet and Ibrahim Amadou was outstanding throughout; he made 10 interceptions and 12 clearances as they stood strong at the back.

Marcos Alonso (Chelsea)
The Spaniard wasn’t first choice when the season began but an injury to Emerson Palmieri has seen him get his spot back.
Marcos Alonso scored the only goal against Newcastle
Always a fine attacking threat from deep, he score a well-struck winner to earn the Blues victory over Newcastle, while also helped nullify the threat of Miguel Almiron.
Jorginho (Chelsea)
The Italian midfielder isn’t touching the ball as much under Frank Lampard as he did under Maurizio Sarri, but he remains vitally important, even as Chelsea’s style changes.
The 27 year-old still made 101 passes on Saturday – his highest of the season, with a 93 per cent completion rate – with almost a quarter getting the Blues into the final third, as well as another five into the penalty area.
Always available to start moves and for teammates to bounce passes off, he was excellent.

Youri Tielemans (Leicester City)
The Belgian creator has been an understated presence in the Foxes midfield so far this season – much of the focus being on James Maddison.
But the 22 year-old produced a classy display in the win over Burnley, scoring a fine winner and being the game’s most decisive performer.
John Fleck (Sheffield United)
The Scotland international produced a fine display at the heart of midfield in the win over Arsenal.
Fleck stuck his foot in and got in Arsenal faces when necessary, but it was his use of the ball which stood out.
He dribbled smartly to ease pressure when necessary, kept play ticking over with intelligent passing and produced three key passes to create chances for his side.
Jack Grealish (Aston Villa)                                                                                        The Villa skipper is really coming into his own after moving further forwards and he was a class apart in the 2-1 win over Brighton on Saturday.

Grealish was a captain fantastic at the weekend

Score one, made another, and provided a cool head when those around him had grown frustrated by the resistance of the 10-man Seagulls.
Theo Walcott (Everton)                                                                                              Now 30, Walcott has been in and out of the Toffees side this season, but when Marco Silva desperately needed a performance from his players, the ex-Arsenal man stepped up.
Operating on the right wing, he produced an all-action display, claiming an assist, hitting the bar with a terrific long range effort, winning tackles in his own defensive third and having seven shots himself – while giving Arthur Masuaku a torrid time all afternoon.
Marcus Rashford (Manchester United)                                                                    After a pretty anonymous display against Newcastle last time for the Red Devils, Rashford appeared to be a man rejuvenated following the international break.
Rashford was a torn on Liverpool’s flesh at the weekend
Scored a fine poacher’s goal to give United the lead – his movement to lose Joel Matip was brilliant – and led the line well throughout.
 
 

			
			PV: 
			0