Sir Alex Ferguson
        
 




Sir Alex Ferguson, who won 13 league titles during his time with United, noticed signs of improvement just a year after the Jurgen Klopp arrived in England.

National Daily figured that Fergusson has always been worried over Klopp’s dedications and potential achievement with Liverpool.
Ferguson won 13 League titles with Man United
“He has done a really good job and revived Liverpool’s enthusiasm,” Fergusson said of Klopp back in 2016
“It can happen that big clubs lose it. For two decades, Liverpool changed managers without building their own identity.
“You can now well and truly sense that you have to count them in this year. You can see Klopp’s dedication on the sideline, I’m convinced his work in training is similar.
“He’s a strong personality. That’s absolutely vital at a big club.
“I’m worried about him because the one thing United don’t want is Liverpool to get above us.”
Ferguson’s fears appear to have become reality as Liverpool prepare to travel to Old Trafford on Sunday.
It’s no exaggeration to say that Liverpool have gone from strength to strength under Jurgen Klopp.
Since taking over from Brendan Rodgers at Anfield in 2015, while the club was 10th in the Premier League, the German manager has helped re-establish the Reds as one of the best sides in Europe.
The Merseyside club is currently top of the Premier League – eight points ahead of defending champions Man City – after a perfect start to the season which has seen Klopp’s side yet to drop any points.
It comes after an excellent campaign which saw the club finish with league season with 97 points – narrowly missing out on the title to Pep Guardiola’s side.
It also also saw the German boss win his first piece of silverware at Anfield as the Reds beat Tottenham in Madrid to win the Champions League for the sixth time – just 12 months after losing to Real Madrid in the European showpiece.
Jurgen Klopp
Although it would have been hard for many people to predict the impact Klopp would have in his four years at Anfield, the transformation is something former Manchester United boss Sir Alex Ferguson warned of.
While Liverpool have enjoyed an impressive rise in the last three years, United have been in a steady decline.
After finishing sixth and missing out on Champions League football last season, the Red Devils are currently 12th in the table after managing just nine points from their opening eight matches.


			
			PV: 
			0