In about three weeks to the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) shocked Governor Yahaya Bello with an early warning of his defeat. The party cautioned embattled Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, who is still contending with skirmishes over the illegal impeachment of the Deputy Governor, Achuba, to desist from wasting the funds of the state on futile electioneering campaign, referring him “to read the handwriting on the wall, do himself good by accepting defeat and stop wasting public funds on fruitless campaign.”
The PDP affirmed that it already has the support of over 70 per cent of registered voters in 18 out of the 21 local governments in Kogi State, even ahead of its official campaign flag-off ceremony in Lokoja on Friday, in preparation for PDP’s inevitable landslide victory at the November 16 governorship election.
The party noted: “though it has uncovered plots by the APC and distressed Governor Bello to frustrate the flag-off ceremony, our members and supporters, in their millions, are already several steps ahead, ready to confront and stop the APC and Governor Bello on their trails.
“Since we kicked off our grassroots campaigns in the last few weeks, the PDP has continued to receive overwhelming support, solidarity and endorsements from all segments of the voting population, including political leaders and community groups, workers, pensioners, students, youth groups, business groups, professionals, and a host of other Kogites who have become despondent with the excruciating misrule of Yahaya Bello.
“This army of the Kogi people is fully rallied against any plot by the APC to derail any stage of the electoral process and they will not allow any infringement by anybody, no matter the machination.
“Governor Bello and the APC ought to have known that it is all over for them. The spontaneous public jubilation that greeted the retrieval of PDP’s mandate of Barrister Shaba Ibrahim, for the Lokoja/Kogi Federal Constituency, at the Court of Appeal, despite the machinations of the APC, reinforces the imminent triumph of the PDP and the people in the November 16 governorship election,” PDP declared.
The party maintained that the people of Kogi State are ready for this election and cannot wait to kick out Governor Bello and vote in their candidate, PDP’s Engr. Musa Wada as their next governor.
The PDP, therefore, called on all Kogites; including all those that have been impoverished by Yahaya Bello; those who were unjustly sacked; those who were orphaned and widowed by this administration as well as all those desirous of seeing a new Kogi State to continue in their determination to rescue the state from the repressive rule of the APC.

			
			PV: 
			0