Arsenal may go through to the English Football League quarterfinals despite their losing to Liverpool on penalty shoot-out on Wednesday if the Reds boss threat is something to take-to-the bank.
National Daily gathered that Jurgen Klopp has warned the Reds could forfeit their Carabao Cup quarter-final.
Jurgen Klopp warns that Liverpool could shun Carabao cup quarter-final
The Merseysiders sensationally booked their place in the last eight after a penalty shootout win against Arsenal followed a 5-5 thriller at Anfield.
Liverpool celebrate EFL penalty shootout victory over Arsenal
But within an hour of the final whistle, Klopp warned that Liverpool will pull out of the competition if the Football League cannot find a fitting free date for them to play.
The quarter-final ties are due to be played on the week commencing December 16th.
But the Reds are heading to Qatar that week for the Club World Cup, in their role as European champions.
And Klopp told his post-match press conference that, unless a suitable date can be found, then they will forfeit their place in the next round.
“If they don’t find an appropriate place for us, not 3am on Christmas Day, then we don’t play it, declared the Liverpool boss.
“They have to make that decision. You have to think about these things.
“If you have a fixture list where one team cannot be part of all the games, then you have to think about the fixture list.
“Hopefully it starts now. I really think that’s fair, and this problem is obvious now. We will not be the victim of this problem.
“We play tonight, we wanted to win it, we did that, and if they don’t find a proper date for us, then we cannot play the next round and whoever is our opponent will go through.
The Reds conceded five times in their meeting with the Gunners, but took the game to penalties after Divock Origi’s 94th minute equalizer.
Teenager Curtis Jones topped a fine appearance off the bench by slotting home the winning spot-kick, and when asked about his side’s defending, the German admitted:
Klopp congratulates Liverpool teenager Curtis Jones on his special feat
“As a manager I could worry more about the goals we conceded – but I couldn’t care less tonight.”




			
			PV: 
			0