President Muhammadu Buhari has maintained pacific silence since the Nigeria Police revealed the uncovering of horror camp in Daura, Katsina State where some persons were chained by their captors.
Reports indicated that it was a pathetic horror discovery when the Nigeria Police discovered a secret torture house in Daura, Katsina State, and rescued some victims who were in chains and placed under physical torture.
The Police had raised alarm over an illegal Islamic torture centre discovered in Daura, Katsina State, President Muhammadu Buhari’s home.
However, some stakeholders have expressed that since the Police are already doing what is expected of them, the President may not be required to make statement on the matter except in instance of negligence.
Report further indicated that security operatives had bust a torture house where minors, teenagers and adults were manhandled by their captors in the Sabon Garin Daura area of Katsina North Local Government Area, Katsina State.
It was added that the discovery was made about three weeks the Police uncovered a similar illegal centre in Rigasa, a rural community in Igabi Local Government Area, Kaduna State.
It was indicated that about 300 children and adults from different parts of Nigeria and neighbouring countries were rescued.
Security Operatives were said to have invaded the remand home in Katsina last weekend during which some victims were rescued and few persons arrested.
It was disclosed that the centre is operated by 78-year-old Bello Umar of Sabon Garin Daura in Daura Local Government Area, Katsina State.
The PPRO of the Katsina State Police Command, Gambo Isah, had on Monday confirmed the rescue of the minors and teenagers, among others.
“In the course of the investigation, 67 persons from the ages of 7 to 40 years were found shackled with chains.
“Victims were also found to have been subjected to various inhuman and degrading treatments,” Isha had explained in a statement.
The Police had, however, admonished parents to refrain from sending their children to illegal or unapproved rehabilitation centres, known as “Makarantar Mallam Mai – Mari”.
The Police indicated in the statement that the victims have already been evacuated to the hospital for treatment while efforts were being made to reunite them with their families.

			
			PV: 
			0