Frontline members of the Edo Peoples Movement (EMP), a pressure group within the All Progressives Congress in Edo state, have declared war on Governor Godwin Obaseki, his kitchen cabinet and the State Chairman of party, Barr. Anslem Ojezua.
EPM is a pressure group within the party in the State, co-convened by a former Commissioner of Justice in the State, Barr. Henry Idahagbon, and a former Minority Whip of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Samson Osagie.
Members of the group have been at loggerheads with Governor Godwin Obaseki, insisting that “he has lost touch with the State politics.”
State Chairman of APC, Anselm Ojezua, in a statement during the week had attacked the members of the group, threatening to expel them from the party as the “alien group is not supported by the party’s Constitution.”
According to Ojezua, the decision was aimed at preserving and protecting the party’s integrity, “since the group has refused to desist from associating their nefarious activities with the State APC.”
Ojezua said that they have decided that this is the time to take concrete and decisive steps to preserve and protect the integrity of the party.
He added that they “cannot allow the reckless antics of shameless and selfish individuals to dictate the fortunes of our party; we have a duty to instil party discipline within our ranks in Edo State and we shall do that.”
But, reacting to Ojezua’s threat of expulsion, Hon. Samson Osagie described Ojezua as a serial failure who has neither won any election for the party nor added any value to it.
“Anslem Ojezua has no moral right to contemplate the things he wrote in the paper, because if anybody deserves to be suspended and expelled from the party, it is Anslem Ojezua.
“Since he became a member of this party till now, Anslem has been a serial failure for the party. He has never added any value by way of ability to win his area in terms of election, he has never been able to win election for this party. Do you compare him to thise of us who are exercising our constitutional right of association within the party?
“To be honest, Anslem is grossly incompetent to lead this party and ensure cohesion and unity.
“How do you explain a party Chairman who went on a national television to say that since the crisis started in APC in Edo, he has not had the opportunity to sit down with the national chairman of the party to discuss the issues.





			
			PV: 
			0