A northern political leader, Dr Junaid Mohammed said the war against insurgency in the country was yet to be won due to leaders who had turned it to money making venture.
He said the selfish altitude of the leaders had made the country to suffer in the hands of the insurgency with thousands of lives lost, including soldiers.
Junaid who spoke in an interview on Saturday said Nigeria was yet to defeat insurgency, saying government was only deceiving Nigerians.
He added that the situation was getting worrisome as more soldiers lose their lives in the battle every time.
“Of course, the issue of insecurity is still there. As far as I am concerned, Boko Haram has not been defeated. These people are lying; it is unfortunate that this war is taking a lot of human souls but some people are making a hell of money from the insecurity caused by Boko Haram. I am living here in Kano; I know that every week, troops are being brought from the Baga area of Maiduguri, around Lake Chad and other areas of the Boko Haram-controlled North East; they have growing markets where fish is sold and those foods cultivated by soldiers are being sold. In such a situation, some people stand to gain from the war and they would not allow the war to be won and it is to their own advantage for the war to continue.
“And, of course, the big ones are making a lot of money from arms purchase and even a lot of the money they get from Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and the kind of false arrangement for help we get from other countries to help us to fight the Boko Haram issue.
“The money from this arrangement is being pocketed. So, I am worried because of the conjunction of the bad war which has been on for over 10 years and which has left the country in tatters and, of course, an economic situation, especially agriculture, is something that we cannot Again, we just had an election which gave whoever that is in charge, the president or the governor of the party a mandate. That mandate has not been discharged, but at the same time, we are already busy quarrelling about 2023.”







			
			PV: 
			0