A truck driver identified as Kazeem has allegedly killed his wife, Raimot, for visiting her mother.

The incident happened at their residence at Agbalagada compound in Adatan area of Abeokuta, Ogun State.

Sources said the couple had been engaging in scuffles following which Raimot reported Kazeem to her mother. Kazeem was said to have warned his wife against visiting her mother.

It was said that Raimot who previously had a son called Farouk with an unnamed man visited her son who lives with her mother.

The visit was said to have angered Kazeem who told Raimot on her mobile phone not to return home in her own interest for defying his order against visiting her mother.

The deceased however returned home to Kazeem, who descended on her leading to a fight.

It was in the middle of the scuffle that Kazeem subjected Raimot to brutality, dragging her on the street till she passed out.

Sources told Pressmen that Kazeem on realising the consequences of his action rushed his breathless wife to a nearby hospital, where she was confirmed dead.

A source said: ‘’After a private hospital had rejected Raimot because doctors there said she was brought in dead, her husband took her to a public hospital at Ijaiye area of Abeokuta, but doctors again told him to take her body to mortuary because she was dead.

‘’Before now, she had constantly subjected his late wife to beatings and molestation, so much so that his mother in–law had to invite policemen from Adatan Division to arrest him. He however did not stop to brutalise her despite the warning by the police.

It was learnt that Kazeem lied to men of a police division at Lafenwa, Abeokuta, that Raimot died after she collapsed while fetching water in the neighbourhood.

Family members and neighbours of the deceased however explained to the police that Kazeem actually killed his wife.

It was gathered that Kazeem has since bolted without any trace, while the remains of the deceased have been buried according to Islamic injunctions.

Confirming the incident, police spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi said operatives were still on the trail of Kazeem.

‘’We are still looking for the suspect, Kazeem. He rushed to the police claiming his wife had an accident. But family members of the deceased and sources in the neighbourhood later revealed that he was actually the one who allegedly beat his wife to death.

‘’ The mistake the family members made was to raise the alarm on sighting Kazeem instead of alerting the police to arrest him, which made the suspect to run away. However, we are not going to relent until we arrest him.’’

Source: The Nation







			
			PV: 
			0