Manchester United have been under fire lately due to their abysmal results. And the only thing any fan of the Old Trafford club wants now is a positive turnaround of results and not loss of any of their star men.
Meanwhile, National Daily gathered that Barcelona have reportedly identified four players, including Marcus Rashford, as potential replacements for Luis Suarez – but Roberto Firmino has been ruled out. This is development that will not go down well with any Red Devil’s supporter.
Marcus Rashford
Uruguayan superstar Suarez is expected to leave the Nou Camp next summer, with the striker going into the final year of his current Barca contract next season.
Luis Suarez is poised to leave Camp Nou in the summer
The 32-year-old has proven a huge hit for Barca since joining from Liverpool for £65million in 2014 – having scored 183 times in 255 appearances and lifted four La Liga titles, four Copa del Reys and a Champions League.
He also created a formidable front line along side Lionel Messi and at different times: Neymar, Ousmane Dembele and currently Antoine Griezmann.
Suarez will leave a huge hole for Catalan chiefs to fill – but they are starting early with a quartet already being looked at to replace the former Ajax ace.
According to Mundo Deportivo, Manchester United hit man Rashford is high on Barca’s shopping list, although they are also ready to target Kylian Mbappe, Harry Kane and Lautaro Martinez.
France World Cup winner Mbappe is said to be their No.1 target but would also be the most costly addition of the named players.
PSG hitman, Kylian Mbappe
The PSG starlet is currently valued at over €200m which would be a world record fee.
Rashford is another option but the issue around him would be his wages – with United currently paying him £200,000-a-week after the England international signed a four year contract in the summer.
Kane might be interested in the transfer after a rocky start to the season at Tottenham, but Daniel Levy would drive up the fee which could put Barca off.
The easiest deal for the La Liga outfit would be for Martinez – who has bagged six goals in 10 Serie A matches for Inter Milan this season.
However, he wouldn’t be the star signing that Barca fans would hope for.
Meanwhile, Firmino could easily be erased from the wish list due to these dual reasons namely, his age and the Reds’ Philippe Coutinho clause.
Roberto Firmino p
The Brazilian is only four years younger than Suarez, while the other names on the list could help create a dynasty in Spain.
There is also a £100m tax on Barca stealing another player from the Merseyside club – following their bitter chase for Coutinho.
 

			
			PV: 
			0