A trade war may be brewing between two West Africa giants, Nigeria and Ghana, following the former’s closure of its borders.
As a counter move poised to hurt Nigeria in the neck and upturn its decision to close its borders, members of the Ghana Union of Traders Association (GUTA) intend to stop the influx of Nigerian products imported to Ghana.
Greater Accra Regional Secretary of GUTA, David Kwadwo Amoateng believed Nigeria has been unfair to foreign traders. As a retaliatory move, he expects the Ghanaian Government to stop Nigerian traders from bringing their goods into Ghana. Ghana on the other hand is yet to make such decision.
“Either somebody’s bread has been buttered or we are cowards. Government is not being fair to us,” he stated.
Amoateng expressed his unhappiness at the popularity of Nigerian made goods overs theirs, especially the likes of Dangote Cement that has gained monopoly over the market while local ones from Ghana were yet to gain market prominence.
“Let’s boycott Nigerian products as payback to their government’s action. How can we be slaves in our own country?” he asked.
Diplomatic Solutions: While the situation could hamper the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA), Ghana’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Regional Integration has sought diplomatic methods to appeal to Nigeria to re-open its borders while cautioning Ghanian traders to remain calm about situation.
Part of the diplomatic ties involved a meeting between Nigeria’s High Commission to Ghana, Olufemi Michael Abikoye and Foreign Minister and Regional Integration, Shirley Ayorkor Botchwey last week, where Botchwey pleaded with Nigeria to re-open its borders. Although, Olufemi Abikoye noted in that meeting that Ghana wasn’t the reason the border was closed.
However, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) supported the Federal Government of Nigeria over its decision to shut its borders with some neighboring countries over issues bordering on illegal trade. According to the Director, African Department, IMF, Abebe Selassie, the closure does not negate the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA).






			
			PV: 
			0